---
title: FAQ
summary: "Frequently Asked Questions"
image: /static/images/avatar.png
layout: PageLayout
---

## What are you doing at OpenSats?

**Open Sats Initiative, Inc. (EIN 85-2722249) is a 501(c)(3) public charity which
aims to fund Bitcoin-related free and open-source projects and associated
education and research initiatives.**

We want to see contributors to Bitcoin Core and FOSS (free and open-source)
tools supported by a sustainable ecosystem and consistent funding, so we set up
a platform to do just that. Donors can come to the OpenSats web platform and
either recommend gifts to specific project areas or contribute to our general
fund.

We distribute grants to a wide variety of contributor types (developers,
designers, researchers, educators, reviewers...), but only to those working on
Bitcoin and open-source projects that will improve public access to Bitcoin
infrastructure.

## How are funds distributed?

Donations to the general fund will be distributed periodically by our board. We
evaluate and assess applications to make sure any grants are awarded to high
impact projects in the Bitcoin space.

We also maintain a list of mission-focused, open-source projects that have been
vetted by our board members for continuous funding. Donors may recommend their
gifts be directed to these specific projects; OpenSats will consider these
recommendations but will retain sole discretion as to how funds are distributed.

## How much of my donation goes towards individuals and projects supported by OpenSats?

All donations to the general fund and specific, mission-aligned FOSS projects
are 100% passed through to OpenSats grant recipients. We try our best to find
donor matching partners that cover the transaction fees that incur with each
donation, regardless of payment method. Please [reach out] if you want to help
us cover these costs.

[reach out]: mailto:support@opensats.org

## Do you distribute grants in bitcoin or fiat?

We only distribute grants in bitcoin.

We accept donations in fiat currency, but they are transferred to our exchange
partner and used to purchase bitcoin. The bitcoin is then held and eventually
distributed to project and grant recipients.

## How do you collect bitcoin donations?

We use BTCPay Server to collect bitcoin on chain and lightning donations. This
ensures that we pay no processing fees and your funds are stretched even
farther.

## How can I communicate with you?

The best way to communicate with us is via email: 

- support@opensats.org

You can also write to us at:

    Open Sats Initiative, Inc.  
    2028 East Ben White Blvd, Suite 240-6969  
    Austin, TX 78741  

## How often are funding opportunities announced?

Funding opportunities are announced once per year, depending on funding
availability. Projects that align with our mission statement are encouraged to
apply. Board members evaluate each application based on technical merit,
potential impact, and the team's ability to execute.

All projects should be free and open-source and related to Bitcoin or an
ancillary technology (like Tor, etc.) which helps Bitcoin use. Your project must
align with the mission of our charity to be eligible for donations.

## How do I become listed on the site?

Any project that is free and open-source and is aligned with the OpenSats
mission are free to [submit an application](/apply) for their
project to be listed on the [OpenSats website](/projects).

All applications which fulfill the criteria will be evaluated by the Board. Upon
board approval and collection of necessary supplemental data, approved projects
will be listed on the OpenSats project portal. Donors will be able to contribute
funds and recommend that the OpenSats' board considers their donations be
allocated towards these pre-approved, mission-aligned projects.

If you are helping Bitcoin and FOSS, please [submit an
application](/apply) to be listed on our site.

## How did you choose the board?

We didn't want any one person or small group to have control of the decision
making process of OpenSats, so we created a transparent, public-facing, and
accountable nine person board to make all organizational decisions.

OpenSats' board members have deep-seated values and will stop at nothing to
support and ensure the survival of free and open-source technology like Bitcoin.

The board is composed of well-known and respected public-facing individuals who
will carry the torch and be held accountable for their choices. We encourage
community feedback, dialogue, and constructive criticism. We can only promise to
do our best to ensure that all funds go to deserving projects which support
OpenSats' mission of creating a sustainable and consistent ecosystem of
funding for Bitcoin and Bitcoin-related FOSS contributors.

We are committed to being 100% passthrough for all donations made on our
platform. To this day our operational, legal, and payment processing fees have
been graciously and privately funded.

Please consider donating to the [OpenSats Operations
Budget](/projects/opensats_operations_budget) which will help
cover our basic operational expenses (which we have kept to a minimum) so we can
ensure that all donations intended for Bitcoin and FOSS projects remain 100%
passthrough.

## Tell me more about your board. How does it work?

We have [nine board members](/about/#board-of-directors) and we vote by
majority. All standard decisions (like which new projects are added to the
website or which projects will receive grants allocated from the general fund)
are made by simple majority (5-4), while board-related changes will require 6-3
majority. New members to the board will be announced publicly.

## Are you really 100% passthrough?

Yes, really. We have an operational budget to cover lawyers, accountants, and
basic operational costs, but they aren't paid from your donations to projects.
Our operational costs are covered by generous donors who regularly donate to our
[operations budget](/projects/opensats_operations_budget).

  - John Pfeffer, Greg Foss, Ten31, #startsmall, and The Bitcoin Company have contributed to our legal and operational overhead or contributed technical development resources so OpenSats can stay 100% passthrough for all general fund and project specific donations.
  - BTCPay Server is a FOSS tool we use to accept bitcoin with no fees.
  - River provides our bitcoin exchange services with no added fees.
  - Unchained provides our multi-sig custody services with no fees.

## Are my donations tax deductible?

Yes, Open Sats Initiative, Inc. (EIN 85-2722249) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit
organization. All gifts and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent of
the law.

If you would like to receive a tax deduction, we may need to collect
supplementary information like your name and email for required recordkeeping
purposes.

OpenSats relies on donors like you to help promote and support a sustainable
ecosystem of contributors to Bitcoin and related free and open-source projects.
We greatly appreciate your contributions.
