---
title: "OpenSats' 2024 Year in Review"
date: '2024-12-30'
tags: ['OpenSats', 'grants', 'donations', 'bitcoin', 'nostr', 'review']
draft: false
authors: ['dergigi', 'default']
images: ['/static/images/blog/66-opensats-2024-year-in-review.jpg']
summary: "365 days. Two funds. 200+ grants. Billions of sats."
---

Twenty-twenty-four. What a year! A lot has happened in the past 12 months, and
just like last year, we want to take the opportunity to pause, reflect, and
share our year in review. We want to look back at the announcements we made,
share an update regarding the donations we received, and give an overview of
how we allocated our funds. After that we will share updates to our grantee
statistics and provide an outlook of what the next year might bring.

- [Announcements](#announcements)
- [Donations](#donations)
- [Allocation](#allocation)
- [Grantees](#grantees)
- [Outlook](#outlook)

Before we dive into the various graphs and numbers, let us spend a minute to
remind everyone—and most importantly ourselves—_why_ we are doing what we are
doing.  Steve Jobs once said, _"I'm convinced that to give away a dollar effectively is harder than to
make a dollar."_ And indeed, [giving grants](/selection) to the right projects
at the right time—and doing it fairly and properly—is a surprisingly hard
problem.

Why set out to solve this problem in the first place? Why go through the trouble
of creating a non-profit entity? Why spend countless hours reviewing grant
applications, commits, reports, pull requests, and other software artifacts? Why
bother with open-source grants at all? Shouldn't this problem be solved by
companies, or direct crowd funding, or the state?

From the beginning, the vision of OpenSats was to create a sustainable
foundation that provides [consistent funding](/about) for free and open-source
projects, especially those who make bitcoin flourish. We don't want to be
dependent on quarterly profits nor on funding from the state, which is why we
chose a public charity as a vehicle.

As mentioned in our [mission statement](/mission), we believe that we can help
make bitcoin more accessible, robust, secure, and decentralized. Further, we
believe that the projects we support have the potential to revolutionize the way
we think about individual sovereignty and liberty—values that we hold in high
regard. We want to operate with as little overhead as possible, which is why we
don't take a cut from donations. And we don't want any one person
or small group to have control over funding or organizational decisions, which
is why we have a 9-person board that is the final arbiter of all decisions.

We don't claim to have all the answers, and we don't claim that what we are
doing is frictionless or perfect. We are bound to make mistakes, and we will
always be prone to false positives (funding projects that aren't as fruitful as
we thought they would be) as well as false negatives (not funding projects that
should receive funding). We strive to gradually and continually improve our
processes, and we hope to get better at what we are doing with every passing
year. That said, we are pleased to see that our structure and
processes are working, and we believe this year in review is a testament to
that.

---

## Announcements

At the beginning of the year, we announced long-term support for [René
Pickhardt](/blog/rene-pickhardt-receives-lts-grant) and
[0xB10C](/blog/0xB10C-receives-lts-grant), two researchers/developers with a
proven track record of doing important work related to bitcoin infrastructure.
Soon after, we announced long-term support for [Bruno
Garcia](/blog/bruno-garcia-receives-lts-grant), another developer that qualifies
as a [load-bearing internet
person](/blog/announcing-lts-grant-program-to-support-bitcoin-core-contributors)
by our estimation. In May [Shashwat
Vangani](/blog/shashwat-vangani-receives-lts-grant) joined our roster of LTS
grantees, followed by [Calle](/blog/cashu-calle-receives-lts-grant) in June, and
[Jason Donenfeld](/blog/jason-donenfeld-lts-grant)
&
[Jon Atack](/blog/jon-atack-receives-lts-grant)
in September. The last two long-term
support grants in 2024 were awarded to [Dusty
Daemon](/blog/dusty-daemon-receives-lts-grant) and
[m1sterc001guy](/blog/m1sterc001guy-receives-lts-grant), as announced in October
and November, respectively. This brings the total number of grantees receiving
long-term support from our General Fund to 18, adding to the 9 announced in 2023
([Marco](/blog/announcing-lts-grant-program-to-support-bitcoin-core-contributors),
[Josi](/blog/josi-baker-receives-opensats-lts-grant),
[Sjors](/blog/sjors-provoost-receives-opensats-lts-grant),
[Vasil](/blog/vasil-dimov-receives-lts-grant),
[Gleb](/blog/gleb-naumenko-receives-lts-grant),
[Matt](/blog/matt-morehouse-lightning-security-lts-grant),
[Will](/blog/will-clark-receives-lts-grant-for-bitcoin-core),
[Furszy](/blog/furszy-receives-lts-grant-for-bitcoin-core), and
[Tobin](/blog/tobin-harding-receives-lts-grant-for-rust-bitcoin)).

![](/static/images/blog/2024-eoy/lts-grantees.png)

In March we announced the expansion of our LTS
program to provide [long-term support for nostr
developers](/blog/nostr-lts-long-term-support-for-nostr-developers), which
we promptly awarded to [PabloF7z](/blog/pablofz7-receives-lts-grant), [Stuart
Bowman](/blog/stuart-bowman-receives-lts-grant), and
[hzrd149](/blog/hzrd149-receives-lts-grant) in April, [William
Casarin](/blog/jb55-receives-lts-grant) aka jb55 in June, [Yuki
Kishimoto](/blog/yuki-receives-lts-grant),
[Hodlbod](/blog/hodlbod-receives-lts-grant), and
[fiatjaf](/blog/fiatjaf-receives-lts-grant) in July,
[Kieran](/blog/kieran-receives-lts-grant),
[Vitor](/blog/vitor-pamplona-receives-lts-grant),
[Daniele](/blog/daniele-receives-lts-grant), and [Alex
Gleason](/blog/alex-gleason-receives-lts-grant) in August, [Mike
Dilger](/blog/mike-dilger-receives-lts-grant) in September, and
[Greenart7c3](/blog/greenart7c3-receives-lts-grant) in October. In addition to
these nostr LTS grants, we announced 5 waves of nostr grants—in
[July](/blog/nostr-grants-july-2024), [August](/blog/nostr-grants-august-2024),
[September](/blog/7th-wave-of-nostr-grants),
[November](/blog/8th-wave-nostr-grants), and
[December](/blog/9th-wave-of-nostr-grants)—giving a total of 35 grants to some
of the most impactful projects in the nostr ecosystem. We also shared some
[highlights of
#nostrdesign](/blog/nostr-design-highlights-may) and
recently committed to [doubling down on nostr](/blog/doubling-down-on-nostr).

In addition to these LTS and nostr grants, we announced [5 waves of bitcoin
grants](/tags/wave), giving short- and medium-term grants to 37 high-impact
open-source projects in the bitcoin space. We announced these waves of grants in
[February](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024),
[June](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024),
[July](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024-6th-wave),
[September](/blog/bitcoin-grants-september-2024-7th-wave), and
[October](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants), respectively. In July we also
announced the launch of the [OpenSats Education
Initiative](/blog/announcing-the-opensats-education-initiative), ensuring that
one of the key aspects of [our mission](/mission) is made explicit: education
and outreach about freedom tech in general, and bitcoin in particular. The
launch of our education initiative was a great success, with dozens of
education-specific applications received, and [13 high-impact educational
initiatives funded](/tags/education), as announced in
[July](/blog/announcing-the-opensats-education-initiative),
[September](/blog/second-wave-of-education-grants), and
[November](/blog/3rd-wave-of-education-grants), respectively. From the
prestigious [Satoshi Nakamoto Institute](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/) to the
international [Mi Primer Bitcoin](https://miprimerbitcoin.io/) to the
student-focused [Summer of Bitcoin](https://www.summerofbitcoin.org/), we are
proud to have been able to move the needle in regard to worldwide freedom tech
education.

We hope that educated users will be able to use bitcoin and other freedom tech
privately, securely, and in a way that empowers them, as opposed to empowering the
advertisement and surveillance machinery that powers most of the web today. We
are proud to support projects that ensure that users can have a certain level of
privacy and security, such as [GrapheneOS](/projects/grapheneos) and [The Tor
Project](/projects/tor). The former received a sizable grant from us last year;
the latter received a grant from us this year. [Strengthening network privacy
with Tor](/blog/tor-receives-support-grant) is crucial, as is the [development
and maintenance of WireGuard](/blog/jason-donenfeld-lts-grant). We deeply
believe that everyone should be able to explore and use the internet privately
and securely and that privacy and free speech must be defended online through
free software and open networks.

Bitcoin is one of the most powerful open networks to date, and we believe that
this will continue to be the case for decades to come. By [renewing our commitment
to bitcoin](/blog/renewing-our-commitment-to-bitcoin), we want to make explicit
that which should go without saying: we are here to support free and open-source
projects that help bitcoin flourish, especially those that don't have a clear
path towards direct monetization. Protocol development is an area that will be
reliant on grants for the foreseeable future, which is why we will continue to
[support Bitcoin Core developers](/tags/core)—whether it’s seasoned veterans or
[up-and-coming contributors](/blog/caring-for-bitcoin-core), as announced in August. If
you are a developer who wants to quit your soul-sucking fiat job to work on
freedom tech, don’t hesitate to [apply for funding](/apply).

Our support for these open-source developers and initiatives is only possible
because of donors like you. We want to express our deep gratitude to everyone
who donated to [our funds](/funds) as well as to our [operations
budget](/funds/ops). If you like what we do and want to support our work, please
consider [making a donation](/donate). Thank you.

---

## Donations

In 2024 we received 929 individual donations for a total sum of \$23.6M. The
largest three were a generous \$1,000,000 gift from the [Reynolds
Foundation](/blog/opensats-receives-one-million-from-reynolds-foundation), an
incredibly generous \$21M donation from
[#startsmall](/blog/opensats-receives-additional-funding-of-dollar21m-from-startsmall),
and an anonymous donation of \$1,000,000 made in bitcoin directly.

As announced at the beginning of the year, OpenSats is to receive [recurring
donations from Bitwise Bitcoin ETF
profits](/blog/recurring-donations-from-bitwise-bitcoin-etf-bitb), along with
Brink and the Human Rights Foundation’s Bitcoin Development Fund. This was
followed by a [recurring donation commitment from Build Asset
Management](/blog/donation-commitment-from-build-asset-management), which we
announced at the end of the second quarter, as well as a recurring commitment
announced by Cathie Wood, who [pledged to donate a fixed percentage of ARK Invest’s
revenue to open-source
contributors](https://njump.me/nevent1qqsqn2s0vekw45jxahy3llcg2k3jxf804kkjma45508w6g8gnht2g4cprpmhxue69uhhyetvv9ujumn0wdmksetjv5hxxmmdqyt8wumn8ghj7un9d3shjtnwdaehgu3wvfskueqpz3mhxue69uhhyetvv9ujuerpd46hxtnfdupzqpxfzhdwlm3cx9l6wdzyft8w8y9gy607tqgtyfq7tekaxs7lhmxfspda99)
in perpetuity.

We hope to receive multiple commitments of this kind from various entities, as
the mission and philosophy of OpenSats is to [support bitcoin infrastructure for
decades](/blog/bitcoin-infrastructure-this-decade) to come, which is why we
launched [our long-term support
program](/blog/announcing-lts-grant-program-to-support-bitcoin-core-contributors)
and aim to be a low-time preference, long-term thinking organization. If you are
in a position to make such a commitment, please don’t hesitate to [reach out to
us](/contact).

In terms of amounts received, we are happy to report that we received higher
amounts via bitcoin directly overall, with over half a million dollars (\$
526,044) received via our “[donate with bitcoin](/donate)” button on our
website. This is about 4x as much as we received via fiat payment rails (\$
133,050)—excluding the large donations mentioned above. The ratio of on-chain to
off-chain donations stayed about the same as last year, with ~70% of bitcoin
payments made using the Lightning Network. In terms of number of donations,
bitcoin rails continue to dominate.

![](/static/images/blog/2024-eoy/donations.png)

The vast majority of donations (~80%) went to our [General
Fund](/funds/general), with the remainder split about evenly between [The Nostr
Fund](/funds/nostr) and our [Operations Budget](/funds/ops). In terms of
amounts, around ~95% of money donated by the general public is directed towards
our General Fund.

<center>
    <DonateToGeneralFundButton/>
</center>

---

## Allocation

The purpose of our two funds is to support free and open-source projects that
are aligned with [our mission](/mission). [The Nostr Fund](/funds/nostr) is
dedicated towards nostr projects, a protocol that is just coming out of its
infancy. The [General Fund](/funds/general) is dedicated towards all other free
and open-source projects and contributors, especially bitcoin-related projects
and projects that help bitcoin flourish.

As of December 2024, we have allocated over \$12M in grants from the General
Fund, and close to \$9M in grants from The Nostr Fund. In terms of money
allocated [year-over-year](/blog/2023-year-in-review#allocation) this is an
increase of 67% on the nostr side, and 81% on the bitcoin side. When looking at
total allocation in USD terms, our two funds are at ~89% and ~52% allocated,
respectively.

![](/static/images/blog/2024-eoy/allocation.png)

As mentioned in [last year’s report](/blog/2023-year-in-review), we suspect that
the distinction between “bitcoin” and “nostr” will blur over time, as
nostr matures and is integrated into a variety of bitcoin software across the
stack. This coalescing is already happening, especially on the eCash front. Are [Cashu
addresses](/blog/nostr-grants-july-2024#npubcash) a Lightning thing, a bitcoin
thing, or a nostr thing? Are wallets that use nostr for social payments nostr
clients, or bitcoin wallets? And what about peer-to-peer exchanges that use nostr to
publish their order books? Various concepts and
technologies are currently merging, and we expect this cross-pollination of
ideas to continue.

With all that said, nostr is still a young network, which is why we will continue to fund experimental
and exploratory projects from our nostr fund. Before we dive into the nostr fund
in more detail, let’s have a look at our General Fund and what projects we
funded in 2024.

### Bitcoin: General Fund

Out of the ~\$23M donated towards our General Fund during the lifetime of the
fund, we have allocated ~\$12M towards free and open-source projects so far. In
terms of gross amounts the top five categories that we gave grants to in 2024
are Bitcoin Core, Lightning, eCash, Education, and Privacy.

![](/static/images/blog/2024-eoy/bitcoin-distribution.png)

Our support for Bitcoin Core is mostly constituted of long-term support grants
for maintainers and developers.
As mentioned in the announcements section above,
[0xB10C](/blog/0xB10C-receives-lts-grant),
[Bruno](/blog/bruno-garcia-receives-lts-grant), and
[Jon](/blog/jon-atack-receives-lts-grant) mark this year's addition to our LTS
roster. We also gave grants
to contributors who [test and review](/blog/caring-for-bitcoin-core) Bitcoin Core.

On the Lightning side, we are proud to support efforts regarding
[Splicing](/blog/dusty-daemon-receives-lts-grant),
[Bolt12](/blog/shashwat-vangani-receives-lts-grant), and [Scaling
Lightning](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024#scaling-lightning), as well as projects
such as [Validating Lightning
Signer](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024#validating-lightning-signer),
[Lampo](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#lampo),
[smaug](/blog/bitcoin-and-nostr-grants-august-2023#watchdescriptor),
[BLAST](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024#blast), [Pickhardt
Payments](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#pickhardtpayments-plugin),
[NLightning](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024-6th-wave#nlightning), [LNP Test
Framework](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024#lightning-network-protocol-test-framework),
and two self-custodial Lightning wallets with
[Blitz](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024-6th-wave#blitz-wallet) and
[Blixt](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2023#blixt-wallet). We are also supporting two
Lightning researchers with long-term support grants, namely [Matt
Morehouse](/blog/matt-morehouse-lightning-security-lts-grant) and [René
Pickhardt](/blog/rene-pickhardt-receives-lts-grant).

Ecash is gaining in both momentum and importance, at least in part due to the
success and proliferation of nostr. We expect this to continue, which is why we
gave long-term support grants to [Calle](/blog/cashu-calle-receives-lts-grant)
for his work on Cashu, as well as
[m1sterc001guy](/blog/m1sterc001guy-receives-lts-grant) for his work on the
Fedimint Lightning Gateway. In addition to these long-term support grants, we
gave grants to [Gonuts](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024-6th-wave#gonuts),
[eNuts](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024-6th-wave#enuts),
[Minibits](/blog/bitcoin-grants-september-2024-7th-wave#minibits),
[Nutmix](/blog/bitcoin-grants-september-2024-7th-wave#nutmix),
[Nutshell](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#cashu-nutshell),
[Macadamia](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024#macadamia), and
[npub.cash](/blog/nostr-grants-july-2024#npubcash).

Grants from our [Education
Initiative](/blog/announcing-the-opensats-education-initiative) went to the
[Satoshi Nakamoto
Institute](/blog/announcing-the-opensats-education-initiative#satoshi-nakamoto-institute),
[Mi Primer
Bitcoin](/blog/announcing-the-opensats-education-initiative#mi-primer-bitcoin),
[Summer of
Bitcoin](/blog/announcing-the-opensats-education-initiative#summer-of-bitcoin),
[Bitcoin Jungle](/blog/second-wave-of-education-grants#bitcoin-jungle), [Bitcoin
Indonesia](/blog/second-wave-of-education-grants#bitcoin-indonesia),
[Deciphering
Bitcoin](/blog/second-wave-of-education-grants#deciphering-bitcoin), [Satsie's
Pocket Guides](/blog/second-wave-of-education-grants#satsies-pocket-guides),
[Free Routing
Africa](/blog/second-wave-of-education-grants#africa-free-routing), [BOB
Spaces](/blog/second-wave-of-education-grants#bobspaces-residency---cohort-3),
[BTC Map](/blog/3rd-wave-of-education-grants#btc-map), [Yes Bitcoin
Haiti](/blog/3rd-wave-of-education-grants#yes-bitcoin-haiti), [Entropy Bitcoin
Education](/blog/3rd-wave-of-education-grants#entropy-bitcoin-education), and
[Bitcoin 4all](/blog/3rd-wave-of-education-grants#bitcoin-4all).

Privacy is an absolute necessity for an open society in the electronic age, as
[Eric Hughes](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/library/cypherpunk-manifesto/) so
beautifully put it. In addition to [long-term support for
Wireguard](/blog/jason-donenfeld-lts-grant) and a grant for [The Tor
Project](/projects/tor), we are proud to have given grants to various projects
that enhance privacy across all layers of the stack.

The remaining grants from the General Fund were given to
[BDK](https://github.com/bitcoindevkit),
[Bitaxe](https://github.com/skot/bitaxe),
[Braidpool](https://github.com/pool2win/braidpool/),
[BTCPay Server](https://github.com/btcpayserver),
[Clams](https://github.com/clams-tech),
[Cove](https://github.com/bitcoinppl/cove),
[dlcdevkit](https://github.com/bennyhodl/dlcdevkit),
[El Tor](https://bitbucket.org/eltordev/eltor),
[Fedimint](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint),
[Floresta](https://github.com/vinteumorg/floresta),
[Krux](https://github.com/selfcustody/krux),
[Krux-Installer](https://github.com/selfcustody/krux-installer),
[Labelbase](https://github.com/Labelbase/Labelbase/),
[LNbits](https://github.com/lnbits),
[Raspiblitz](https://github.com/raspiblitz/raspiblitz).
[satsigner](https://github.com/satsigner/satsigner),
[secp256k1.swift](https://github.com/21-DOT-DEV/swift-secp256k1),
[StratumV2](https://github.com/stratum-mining/benchmarking-tool),
[Utreexo](https://github.com/utreexo/utreexo), and
[Vexl](https://github.com/vexl-it/vexl).

You can read more about these projects in the respective announcements published
in [February](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024),
[June](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024),
[July](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024-6th-wave),
[September](/blog/bitcoin-grants-september-2024-7th-wave),
[October](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants), and
[December](/blog/renewing-our-commitment-to-bitcoin).

### Nostr: The Nostr Fund

Out of the ~\$10M donated towards The Nostr Fund since its inception, we have
allocated ~\$8.9M as of December 2024. This means that our nostr fund is 89%
allocated in USD terms, with the majority of grants still going to [`kind1`][k1]
client projects, as was the case last year. However, we definitely saw “other
stuff” on the rise this year, with nostr-based app stores, P2P trading systems,
chat clients, and even website frameworks gaining traction. Media hosting and
the integration of eCash are trends that we keep a close eye on too, and it’s
fantastic to see that custom feeds via Data Vending Machines
([DVMs](/blog/nostr-grants-december-2023#nip-90-data-vending-machine-framework))—something
that was pure
experimentation last year—are now integrated and ready for prime-time in
multiple clients. This shift to “other stuff” is apparent in our 2024 allocation
statistics as well:

![](/static/images/blog/2024-eoy/nostr-distribution.png)

[k1]: https://nostrdata.github.io/kinds/

As mentioned in the announcements section, we introduced [long-term support for
nostr developers](/blog/nostr-lts-long-term-support-for-nostr-developers) in
March 2024. Consequently, around ~35% of The Nostr Fund is allocated towards our
LTS grantees: [Pablo](/blog/pablofz7-receives-lts-grant),
[Stuart](/blog/stuart-bowman-receives-lts-grant),
[hzrd](/blog/hzrd149-receives-lts-grant), [Will](/blog/jb55-receives-lts-grant),
[Yuki](/blog/yuki-receives-lts-grant),
[Hodlbod](/blog/hodlbod-receives-lts-grant),
[fiatjaf](/blog/fiatjaf-receives-lts-grant),
[Kieran](/blog/kieran-receives-lts-grant),
[Vitor](/blog/vitor-pamplona-receives-lts-grant),
[Daniele](/blog/daniele-receives-lts-grant),
[Alex](/blog/alex-gleason-receives-lts-grant),
[Mike](/blog/mike-dilger-receives-lts-grant), and
[Greenart](/blog/greenart7c3-receives-lts-grant).

In addition to these LTS grants we gave grants to the following nostr projects
this year:
[0xchat](https://github.com/0xchat-app),
[alphaama](https://github.com/eskema/alphaama),
[Camelus](https://github.com/leo-lox/camelus),
[Captain's Log](https://github.com/nodetec/comet),
[dart_ndk + yana](https://github.com/relaystr/ndk),
[DVMDash](https://github.com/dtdannen/dvmdash),
[Formstr](https://github.com/abhay-raizada/nostr-forms),
[futr](https://github.com/futrnostr/futr),
[Groups](https://github.com/max21dev/groups),
[jesterui](https://github.com/jesterui/jesterui),
[Mostro](https://github.com/MostroP2P/mostro),
[ngit](https://github.com/DanConwayDev/ngit-cli),
[nostr-php](https://github.com/nostrver-se/nostr-php),
[nostr-relay-tray](https://github.com/CodyTseng/nostr-relay-tray),
[nostr-sdk-ios](https://github.com/nostr-sdk/nostr-sdk-ios),
[nostr-spring-boot-starter](https://github.com/theborakompanioni/nostr-spring-boot-starter),
[nostr.build](https://github.com/nostrbuild/nostr.build),
[nostrability](https://github.com/nostrability),
[Nostrmo](https://github.com/haorendashu/nostrmo),
[Nostrocket](https://github.com/nostrocket),
[nostroots](https://github.com/Trustroots/nostroots),
[nostter](https://github.com/SnowCait/nostter),
[Notedeck](https://github.com/damus-io/notedeck),
[Osty](https://github.com/ostyjs/create-osty/),
[Safebox](https://github.com/trbouma/safebox),
[Seer](https://github.com/Galaxoid-Labs/Seer),
[Shopstr](https://github.com/shopstr-eng/shopstr),
[Voyage](https://github.com/dluvian/voyage),
[Whitenoise](https://github.com/erskingardner/whitenoise), and
[Zapstore](https://github.com/zapstore/zapstore).

<center>
    <DonateToNostrFundButton/>
</center>

You can read more about these projects in the respective announcements published
in [July](/blog/nostr-grants-july-2024),
[August](/blog/nostr-grants-august-2024),
[September](/blog/7th-wave-of-nostr-grants),
[November](/blog/8th-wave-nostr-grants), and
[December](/blog/9th-wave-of-nostr-grants).

---

## Grantees

We have added about a dozen projects to our list of grantees every month,
picking up the pace quite a bit as compared to last year. Grantee growth is
quite stable month over month, with 161 new grants given in 2024 (61 on the
nostr side, and exactly 100 on the bitcoin side). In total, we have evaluated
close to 1,000 applications resulting in 232 grants given.

![](/static/images/blog/2024-eoy/grantees.png)

As of this writing, we are sending about \$1,000,000 worth of bitcoin to our
grantees every month, something that—thanks to bitcoin—we can do at extremely
low cost and with very little overhead.

As [mentioned previously](/blog/2023-year-in-review), we hope to support many of
our grantees for the long term, as long as funding permits and progress remains
aligned with our mission.

---

## Outlook

As we head into the new year, we can’t help but marvel at how far we’ve come.
Bitcoin is becoming more secure, more private, and easier to use by the minute.
Nostr is shaping up to be the self-sovereign identity layer that the internet so
desperately lacks, as well as a new paradigm on how to build stuff for the web.
A paradigm that is resistant to censorship and downtime, with
pseudonymous identity and lightning-fast payments built in. To say that we are
bullish would be an understatement; we are exhilarated to see it all come
together.

Nevertheless, much remains to be done. Bitcoin, Lightning, and nostr are far from
perfect, and as these and other protocols evolve, we will do our best to
support the projects and builders who are moving the needle. More than that: not
only do we want to support innovation and improvements, but we first and
foremost want to make sure that those who are maintaining, reviewing, and
stress-testing critical infrastructure are taken care of. There are many unsung
heroes that make all this stuff work, and we are here to support them.

Our generous donors make our support for free and open-source software possible.
One of our goals for 2025 is to receive multiple recurring commitments to ensure
that our long-term support programs are well-funded. After all, [our
mission](/mission) is to maintain a sustainable ecosystem of funding for free
and open-source projects and contributors. We hope that our track record will
incentivize those who rely on bitcoin to give to OpenSats periodically, both to
one of our funds as well as to our operations budget, which we use to
independently fund our small team. We are one of the few charities that don’t
take a cut from donations, so if you think we are doing good work and you want
us to continue to exist, please continue to support us:

<center>
    <DonateToOperationsButton/>
</center>

Our hope is to scale our grant-giving efforts considerably going forward, and we
will share some thoughts on this matter at the beginning of the new year. In the
best case, we want to see many more organizations like OpenSats, as we believe
that specialization and a broader support network are paramount as the various
ecosystems grow and specialize. We don’t have a crystal ball, but from
our perspective, it isn’t hard to imagine that nostr and eCash are here to stay
and are bound to grow, and it isn’t outlandish to think that open-source
hardware will gain in importance as well. Bitcoin will continue to be of the
utmost importance, and as it enters the political arena of the world
stage we expect to see multiple non-profits created to support open-source
developers across all kinds of jurisdictions. If you are thinking about creating
such an organization don’t hesitate to [reach out to us](/contact).

Last but not least, we want to dedicate this final paragraph to all of you.
Whether you are a donor, grantee, future applicant, or simply an inquisitive
reader who is interested in bitcoin and freedom tech—the revolution that is
currently happening is only happening because of you. We are immensely thankful
for your time, care, and attention. You could be spending it on anything else,
but you choose to spend it on bitcoin and freedom tech. Thank you. We are beyond
grateful for the support we received, both monetarily as well as in the form of
community and [volunteer efforts](/about#volunteers), and it's exhilarating to
see the technical progress across [projects we support](/projects/showcase). You
are what makes all of this work, and we couldn't be doing it without you.

Here's to freedom, and an even better 2025. Onwards!
