---
title: "Seventh Wave of Nostr Grants"
date: '2024-09-18'
tags: ['OpenSats', 'grants', 'nostr', 'wave']
draft: false
authors: ['arvin', 'dergigi']
images: ['/static/images/blog/54-nostr-7th-wave.jpg']
summary: "OpenSats is funding five more open-source projects in the nostr ecosystem."
---

We are excited to announce our seventh wave of nostr grants, supporting a new
cohort of projects driving the ecosystem forward in transformative ways.

Nostr's evolution is not slowing down; it is expanding beyond social networking
into secure messaging, IoT integrations, and enhanced developer tools.

These projects represent the movement to expand our interaction with
decentralized technologies, ultimately making them more accessible and secure.
They embody the spirit of innovation that defines nostr's future, and we're
proud to support the developers pushing these boundaries.

Together, we're laying the foundation for a more open, decentralized internet
that fosters genuine global creativity and collaboration.

The future of nostr is brighter than ever, and with the continued support of its
incredible community, we can't wait to see how these projects will help shape a
more connected and resilient digital world.

- [Nostr Arduino](#nostr-arduino)

- [White Noise](#white-noise)

- [futr](#futr)

- [Notedeck](#notedeck)

- [Keystache](#keystache)

Our support for nostr is made possible by the generosity of our donors. If you
would like to help us continue supporting the nostr ecosystem, consider making a
donation to [The Nostr Fund](/funds/nostr).

<center>
    <DonateToNostrFundButton/>
</center>

Let's dive in and take a closer look at each project and how they align with our
mission.

---

### Nostr Arduino

Nostr Arduino is an open-source library that integrates the nostr protocol with
[Arduino](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Introduction) microcontrollers,
enabling embedded devices to send and receive nostr events. Led by [Black
Coffee](https://github.com/blackcoffeexbt/), the project aims to provide
Internet of Things (IoT) devices with a permissionless, distributed network
without relying on centralized services or exposing them to spyware. Plans
include refactoring the library for better memory stability, increasing test
coverage, enhancing documentation, creating example projects, and promoting the
library through media content. The team also intends to collaborate on IoT NIP
use cases, make the hardware
[NIP-46](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/46.md) remote signer
production-ready, add NIP-46 support to web clients, enable remote device
configuration via nostr, and explore eCash integration.

Repository: [arduino-nostr](https://github.com/blackcoffeexbt/arduino-nostr),
[hardware-nostr-connect-device](https://github.com/blackcoffeexbt/hardware-nostr-connect-device)  

License: MIT

### White Noise

JeffG is developing [White Noise](https://github.com/erskingardner/whitenoise),
a nostr-based messaging client focused on secure communication. It implements
double ratchet encryption for direct messages, supports group messaging, and
synchronizes conversations across multiple devices. Built on nostr's
censorship-resistant backbone, White Noise aims to deliver a seamless user
experience similar to Signal, but with the added benefits of open protocols and
decentralized infrastructure, ensuring privacy and accessibility for users in
the freedom tech space.

In addition to White Noise, JeffG is rebuilding
[Ostrich.work](https://ostrich.work/), a platform designed to connect
individuals with job opportunities in the freedom tech sector. He is also
[contributing to the
NDK](https://github.com/nostr-dev-kit/ndk/commits?author=erskingardner) (Nostr
Development Kit), enhancing its stability and usability for developers.

Repository:
[erskingardner/whitenoise](https://github.com/erskingardner/whitenoise)

License: MIT

### futr

Futr is a decentralized nostr client written in
[Haskell](https://www.haskell.org/) by [prolic](https://github.com/prolic),
focusing on public and private groups
([NIP-29](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/29.md)) and private
direct messages
([NIP-17](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/17.md)). The
project positions itself more like Telegram than Twitter. It's a native app that
doesn't rely on a browser engine and is designed to cross-compile to Linux,
Windows, macOS, Android, and iOS. Plans include refactoring for better
performance, improving the user interface (possibly switching to Qt),
implementing group and private messaging, and integrating features like
voice/video calls and Lightning Network zaps to enhance secure and decentralized
communication.

Repository: [futrnostr/futr](https://github.com/futrnostr/futr)

License: MIT

### Notedeck

Notedeck is a multi-platform nostr client for Android and desktop, inspired by
TweetDeck and developed by [kernelkind](https://github.com/kernelkind). It
offers a fully modular dashboard with customizable columns, enabling users to
manage multiple accounts simultaneously. Users can view different timelines,
notifications, direct messages, and bookmarks from a unified interface,
rearranging columns as desired. The mobile version provides a similar experience
optimized for single-column viewing. Future development includes account
management, improved UI navigation, modular column support, posting
capabilities, and profile viewing.

Repository: [damus-io/notedeck](https://github.com/damus-io/notedeck)

License: MIT

### Keystache

Keystache is a desktop-native nostr signing application that offers a seamless
single-sign-on experience and key management for desktop users, developed by
[Tommy Volk](https://github.com/tvolk131). Similar to the Alby Chrome Extension
but tailored for desktop environments, it provides a base layer for nostr
desktop apps, eliminating the need for individual apps to manage private keys.
Currently in alpha for [Apple
Silicon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_silicon) and supporting the
[NIP-55](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/55.md) protocol for
key management, Keystache aims to reach beta soon and version 1.0 by year's end.
Plans include evolving into a portal for nostr with features like an app
marketplace, Fedimint wallet integration, signing permissions, and local relay
support, simplifying key management, and fostering nostr desktop application
development.

Repository: [nodetec/keystache](https://github.com/nodetec/keystache)

License: MIT

---

We are proud to support these projects and look forward to their continuous
contributions to the nostr ecosystem. We have more grants to announce soon and
will provide funding for many more projects in the future. If you're working on
a nostr project that is free and open-source, [don't hesitate to apply](/apply).

Our support for nostr is made possible by donors like you. Please consider
donating to [The Nostr Fund](/funds/nostr) to help us fund the ingenious
developers building toward a better future.

<center>
    <DonateToNostrFundButton/>
</center>
