---
title: "Advancements in eCash"
date: '2025-09-24'
tags: ['OpenSats', 'bitcoin', 'impact', 'ecash']
authors: ['default', 'arvin', 'dergigi']
images: ['/static/images/blog/84-advancements-in-ecash.jpg']
draft: false
summary: "An impact report from the front-lines of ecash development."
---

Ecash is a digital cash system based on [David Chaum's
work](https://chaum.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/Chaum-blind-signatures.pdf)
from the 1980s, using blind signatures to create and transfer bearer tokens
without revealing spenders. Cashu adapts this model as a third-layer protocol
issuing bitcoin-backed tokens settled through the Lightning Network, while
Fedimint applies a federated Chaumian design that allows communities to issue
and redeem private bearer tokens. Both of these approaches aim to deliver
private, fast, and offline-capable transactions.

As David Chaum once observed, the stakes of digital money go far beyond
convenient payments.

>The choice between keeping information in the hands of individuals or of
>organizations is being made each time any government or business decides to
>automate another set of transactions. In one direction lies unprecedented
>scrutiny and control of people's lives, in the other, secure parity between
>individuals and organizations. The shape of society in the next century may
>depend on which approach predominates.
>
><cite>—[David
>Chaum](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/mac/classes/6.805/articles/money/chaum-electronic-privacy.html)</cite>

Over the past year, OpenSats has given long-term and targeted support to ecash
developers and projects. This led to contributors proposing new protocol
standards, improving reference implementations, enhancing wallet usability, and
adding entry points for merchants and services. Several new standards now span
multiple projects, signaling adoption, interoperability, and the growth of
bitcoin-based ecash infrastructure.

The nine initiatives highlighted in this impact report are:

- [Cashu](#cashu)
- [Cashu Dev Kit](#cashu-dev-kit)
- [Nutshell](#nutshell)
- [Minibits Wallet](#minibits-wallet)
- [Nutstash](#nutstash)
- [Npub.cash](#npubcash)
- [Hashpool](#hashpool)
- [Fedimint](#fedimint)
- [OpenCash](#opencash)

The cumulative advancement of these projects marks a shift from experimentation
towards reliable infrastructure, showing that ecash is becoming a more
dependable part of Bitcoin's payment landscape.

Let's take a closer look at how each of these ecash initiatives is making an
impact.

---

### Cashu

Over the past year, Cashu developments focused on strengthening reliability,
expanding interoperability, and supporting new use cases. With long-term
[support](/blog/cashu-calle-receives-lts-grant) from OpenSats, Calle advanced
new privacy-preserving standards, improved Lightning settlement, and introduced
features that make multi-mint and shared custody practical. These efforts moved
Cashu toward infrastructure that operators can run and wallets can trust. Many
of the improvements were formalized as new NUT standards—which define the
Notation, Usage, and Terminology of the Cashu protocol.

Among the changes, [cached
responses](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/19.md) (NUT-19) allow
wallets to recover after a failed transaction rather than risking loss of funds.
Calle also authored [clear
authentication](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/21.md) (NUT-21) and
[blind authentication flows](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/22.md),
which allow mints to restrict access while preserving transaction privacy. An
extension to [NUT-11](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/11.md)
introduced the `SIG_ALL` option, enabling shared custody and escrow by requiring
multiple parties to authorize a spend. Work on [payment
requests](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/18.md) (NUT-18) also
provided Cashu with an equivalent of a Lightning invoice, giving wallets a
standardized way to request tokens over different communication channels, such
as HTTP or [nostr](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nostr).

These specifications transitioned into production. The reference implementation,
[Nutshell](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell), added support for [multi-mint
payments and a Lightning path-finding
loop](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/pull/692), allowing a single invoice
to be split across several custodians while improving payment success rates
across multiple routes. The 0.17.x release series consolidated these advances
into tagged builds
([0.17.0](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/releases/tag/0.17.0)), bringing
Redis-backed caching, [Keycloak-based
authentication](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/pull/675), and [expanded
quote responses](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/235) that ease wallet
integration in stateless environments.

Alongside protocol changes, Calle developed tools to improve reliability and
adoption. The [Cashu Auditor](https://github.com/callebtc/cashu-auditor)
automates test payments between mints and exposes uptime through an API, giving
wallet UIs visibility into mint health.
[NFChat](https://github.com/callebtc/nfchat) demonstrated NFC-based transfers
between Android wallets, and the [Cashu
Decoder](https://github.com/callebtc/cashu-decoder) made it easier for
developers to inspect and debug tokens.

Work is underway on a [proposal](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/267) for
a nostr-based backup format for mint lists, providing multi-mint users a
portable, censorship-resistant way to restore their setup. Together with the
Auditor, NFChat, and Decoder, these contributions strengthened Cashu's
foundations, improved operator confidence, and moved the protocol closer to
production-ready ecash infrastructure.

### Cashu Dev Kit

The Cashu Development Kit ([CDK](https://cashudevkit.org/)) makes it easier for
developers to build apps on top of the Cashu protocol. In 2025, the team
[delivered](https://github.com/cashubtc/cdk/pull/932) one of the most requested
features: mobile bindings, which allow Cashu's core functions to run directly in
iOS and Android apps through [CDK Swift](https://github.com/cashubtc/cdk-swift)
and [CDK Kotlin](https://github.com/cashubtc/cdk-kotlin).

These bindings make CDK the most accessible path for developers who want to
create Cashu-powered experiences on mobile.

>Mobile bindings have been the number one requested CDK feature for some time.
>With the release of our Swift and Kotlin bindings, CDK is the easiest way to
>get started building Cashu apps. As Bitcoin monetizes, Cashu will be the
>protocol which day-to-day and online-native payments are settled.
>
><cite>—David Caseria, CDK contributor</cite>

Beyond bindings, the project also [worked
on](https://github.com/cashubtc/cdk/pull/1001) simplifying multi-mint wallet
support. A new implementation will allow developers to handle balances across
different mints more seamlessly, supporting common wallet actions without
requiring manual mint management. This functionality will be built into the
bindings once complete and released in a future version of CDK.

With OpenSats' [support](/blog/thirteenth-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#sats-app), the
team is also building Sats App, a native wallet that applies CDK's new bindings
on iOS and Android. An iOS TestFlight is targeted for late 2025.

CDK is emerging as the developer toolkit that connects protocol advancements
with real-world applications, ensuring that Cashu can move from research and
wallets into broader usage across mobile platforms.

### Nutshell

As maintainer of the [Nutshell](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell) reference
implementation, [lollerfirst](https://github.com/lollerfirst) focused on making
Cashu reliable in practice. His work turned Calle's new standards into
production code, added safeguards around issuance, and started research into
privacy and programmability features.

Using [support](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#cashu-nutshell) from OpenSats,
lollerfirst implemented [cached requests and
responses](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/pull/624) (NUT-19) and
[signatures on quotes](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/pull/670) (NUT-20)
in production, ensuring wallets could safely retry failed operations and that
minted tokens reached the intended recipient. Nutshell also added recipient-key
locking for safer direct payments tied to the intended recipient's key, and
simple shared-fund setups.

In addition, support for [keyset
management](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/pull/734) was added, with new
identifiers, expirations, rotation tools, and per-keyset balance views.
Operators now have clearer control, while users know their tokens remain valid
as keys rotate.

Lightning settlement reliability has also been improved. Nutshell now [retries
different routes](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/pull/692) and splits
payments into smaller parts, allowing them to be processed through multiple
channels. This improves how Cashu wallets interact with Lightning, increasing
the chances of settlement. The browser-based [Cashu.me wallet](http://cashu.me)
adopted these upgrades, alongside NFC tap-to-pay, multi-mint balances, and
simpler onboarding.

Efficiency improved with [binary token
serialization](https://github.com/cashubtc/cdk/pull/507), reducing token size by
approximately one-third and enabling smaller, faster QR codes that are easier to
scan under real-world conditions.

On the research side, there was an exploration of anonymous-credential ecash
([KVAC](https://github.com/lollerfirst/cashu-kvac/tree/master)), which aims to
unlink the act of receiving tokens from spending them, so mints cannot connect
issuance to use. Prototypes were also tested for conditional payments, where
Discrete Log Contracts
([DLCs](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/discreet-log-contracts/)) make tokens
spendable only if a specified condition is met, and
[synthetic-dollar](https://github.com/cashubtc/nutshell/pull/608) backends with
[LNMarkets](https://lnmarkets.com/), which allow tokens to represent a
stable-value balance rather than bitcoin's fluctuating price.

By mid-2025, Nutshell shipped stable versions that added wallet authentication,
recoverable payments after failures, safer mint quotes, and support for
multi-party custody. It also delivered stronger operator controls and research
prototypes. Nutshell remains a core implementation in the ecosystem and a
testbed for new ideas.

### Minibits Wallet

[Minibits](https://www.minibits.cash/) is a Cashu wallet developed by
independent contributor [Misovan](https://github.com/misovan). It runs on mobile
devices and keeps payments private while preserving the bearer nature of ecash
tokens.

With [support](/blog/bitcoin-grants-september-2024-7th-wave#minibits) from
OpenSats, Minibits expanded [beyond
Android](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/commit/3a160fc) this
year. An iOS version launched via TestFlight, and EU users can also download it
from the [Freedom Store](https://freedomstore.io/). The project
[updated](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/commit/9e057ba) its
React Native codebase and libraries for compatibility with modern devices.

The wallet added
[migration](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/commit/d556652) and
transfer features. Users can export and import tokens, mint lists, and contacts
between devices, while keeping the same public wallet address when switching
phones. It also adopted the compact [v4 token
format](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/releases/tag/v0.1.8-beta.46)
for all supporting mints and animated QR codes
([NUT-16](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/16.md)) for [scanning and
display](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/releases/tag/v0.1.9-beta.25),
making large token sets easier to scan and share.

Reliability improved with [WebSocket](https://cashubtc.github.io/nuts/17/)
(NUT-17) updates, which instantly push balances, and the adoption of [cached
responses](https://cashubtc.github.io/nuts/19/) (NUT-19), which allows wallets
to retry incomplete payments after a crash or disconnect—a safeguard now used
across the ecosystem. On Android, the [Nostr Wallet Connect](https://nwc.dev/)
commands have been adjusted to minimize the likelihood of system-level
interruptions disrupting a payment in progress.

Minibits can now create and pay for [payment
requests](https://cashubtc.github.io/nuts/18/) (NUT-18), aligning with other
wallets that adopted the same format. Tokens can also be sent over [nostr direct
messages](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/17.md), making it
simple to pass ecash between people already using [nostr
clients](https://nostrapps.com/#microblogging#all). Another addition allows
senders to lock tokens to a recipient's public key, with an optional expiration
if the token remains unclaimed.

One of the most notable improvements was the ability to make [offline
transfers](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/commit/4e6c6e9). A
sender can [prepare a
payment](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/commit/12dd4f9) while
online, then go offline. The recipient can later connect to validate and redeem
the tokens, or keep them circulating as ecash. As Misovan explained:

>Thanks to the OpenSats grant, I was able to focus on the niche area of offline
>ecash payments. For those of us used to fast internet, this may seem like a
>curiosity, but in many underdeveloped regions it's a real necessity. Minibits
>has become a pioneer in showcasing the unique properties of ecash for moving
>bitcoin. The wallet enables the payer to be completely offline, leveraging
>ecash's nature as a true bearer token stored directly in the wallet.

By broadening platform support, improving reliability, enabling sender-locked
and offline payments, and making transfers easier across devices, Minibits moved
closer to being a daily-use mobile wallet for ecash.

### Nutstash

Nutstash is a web-based Cashu wallet maintained by
[Gandlaf](https://github.com/gandlafbtc). Over the past year, with
[support](/blog/ninth-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#nutstash) from OpenSats, the
project gained new features for multi-mint payments, offline use, protocol
compatibility, and security.

The [2.2.0](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nutstash-wallet/releases/tag/v2.2.0)
release introduced multi-mint payments, allowing a single Lightning invoice to
be paid using balances from multiple mints. Nutstash also added Lightning
Address support, real-time balance updates over WebSockets, and compatibility
with mints that use [clear authentication](https://cashubtc.github.io/nuts/21/)
and [blind authentication](https://cashubtc.github.io/nuts/22/).

[Offline
features](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nutstash-wallet/releases/tag/nutstash-v2.0.4)
advanced as well. Users can now receive tokens without an internet connection,
with the wallet confirming validity before adding them to the balance. A coin
selector has been added, allowing users to choose which tokens to spend when
sending offline. QR code and NFC transfers were updated to support these flows,
making ecash more practical in weak-connectivity environments. Support for
[payment requests](https://cashubtc.github.io/nuts/18/) was also added, joining
other wallets in offering a standard invoice format.

Beyond the wallet itself, Gandlaf worked on supporting tools. The [Cashu
Brrr](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/cashu-brrr) project introduced a new
[physical note
template](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/cashu-brrr/commit/e9e5922f28a52cb3a07cd6d5ac36d3d842eb494d)
for printed tokens and launched
[OpenPleb](https://github.com/gandlafbtc/open-pleb), a self-hosted service that
lets users pay fiat QR bills with Bitcoin via Lightning or ecash.

Community involvement remained a focus. Gandlaf gave the talk "Ecash on Bitcoin
— Cashu New Frontiers" at [Bitcoin Seoul
2025](https://seoul-2025-pres.vercel.app/) and organized monthly [Bitcoin
Pusan](https://bitcoinpusan.space/) meetups, offering developers and users
practical exposure to ecash.

By mid-2025, Nutstash had achieved support for multi-mint payments, offline
transfers, standardized payment requests, shared custody arrangements, and
improved security. These features demonstrated the practical, reliable, and
private use of ecash in real-world applications.

### Npub.cash

[Npub.cash](https://npub.cash/) makes it possible to receive Lightning payments
as Cashu ecash. When someone sends a Lightning payment to a Lightning Address,
npub.cash receives it, and converts it into tokens, holding them until the user
returns online to collect them.

Within the past year, [Egge](https://github.com/Egge21M) released npub.cash
[v2](https://github.com/cashubtc/npubcash-server/pull/35), a major update that
made the system easier to run. The new version dropped dependencies on
third-party services and instead connects directly to Cashu mints. It also
introduced mint quotes instead of proofs, added more secure login options, and
reorganized the codebase for simpler deployment.

Users gained more control with this release. Npub.cash v2 allows users to select
the mint they want to use and verifies the connection. It also added locked
quotes, which require the wallet to sign before the tokens can be redeemed. This
ensures tokens are only issued to the rightful user, extending safeguards from
wallets to the npub.cash server. Egge also introduced `Cashu-402`
([NUT-24](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/24.md)), a way for services
to charge for access directly through the Cashu protocol.

A [WebSocket](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/98) endpoint has been added,
allowing wallets to receive instant notifications when a payment arrives, rather
than waiting for periodic refreshes. To handle many concurrent payments
reliably, Egge also created [`almnd`](https://github.com/Egge21M/almnd), a
scheduling tool that spaces out requests to mints, allowing the system to track
thousands of payments without overloading servers.

Other wallets began integrating these improvements. Cashu.me added npub.cash v2
as an experimental feature, and the [Sovran
wallet](/blog/twelfth-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#sovran) listed support for using
npub.cash addresses with different mints. Egge also built
[`nut-bridge`](https://github.com/Egge21M/nut-bridge), a prototype that forwards
nostr zaps as ecash "NutZaps" and issues receipts.

Egge's work on npub.cash is tied to [his role as a
maintainer](https://github.com/cashubtc/cashu-ts/releases) of `cashu-ts`, the
main TypeScript library for the protocol. He contributed hundreds of changes,
helped lead multiple releases, and launched a new documentation site.

As Egge described:

>With npub.cash v2, Lightning Addresses are no longer tied to a specific wallet.
>Users can get an address right away, wallets can support whichever address
>their users prefer, and providers can launch their own services in minutes.

Npub.cash v2 made Lightning Addresses portable and easy to host. It allows
people to receive Lightning payments as ecash without staying online, while
giving them the choice to use a public service or run their own.

### Hashpool

[Hashpool](https://hashpool.dev/articles/what-is-hashpool/) is an accountless
mining pool that uses ecash tokens to represent mining shares. Instead of
tracking balances in a custodial database, the pool issues miners these private,
bearer-style tokens for their work. When blocks are found, the tokens can be
redeemed for bitcoin.

With [support](/blog/twelfth-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#hashpool-and-axepool) from
OpenSats, developments have focused on integrating ecash issuance directly into
the [Stratum V2](https://stratumprotocol.org/) protocol. The connection between
pool and mint was rebuilt to use [asynchronous
channels](https://github.com/vnprc/hashpool/commit/44f24d5), making payout flows
more reliable. New [message
formats](https://github.com/vnprc/hashpool/commit/5888558) were added in line
with Cashu standards, and the development environment was upgraded with [Nix
Flakes](https://nix.dev/concepts/flakes.html), Bitcoin
[regtest](https://developer.bitcoin.org/examples/testing.html) setups, and
[command-line utilities](https://github.com/vnprc/hashpool/commit/3c232ce) for
testing wallet balances and redemption. Together, these changes make Hashpool
easier to test and operate under real-world mining conditions.

Hashpool also explored how ecash payouts could be extended through Lightning and
payment requests, with an [active pull
request](https://github.com/vnprc/hashpool/pull/62) open for Lightning
integration. These additions would allow miners to instantly redeem their tokens
for bitcoin, thereby broadening the utility of ecash-based rewards.

A related project called
[Axepool](https://hashpool.dev/dev-logs/dev-log-2025-04-05/#axepool) applies the
same design to small-scale miners, particularly those running
[Bitaxe](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024#the-bitaxe) hardware. By issuing
[eHash](https://hashpool.dev/articles/what-is-hashpool/#ehash) (ecash tokens
backed by proof of work) directly for contributed hashpower, Axepool removes
account requirements and minimum withdrawal limits, making it easier for
everyday miners to receive frequent payouts. Together, Hashpool and Axepool
demonstrate how ecash can replace traditional pool accounting with direct,
accountless mining rewards that are private and transferable.

### Fedimint

Fedimint is an ecash protocol based on a federated Chaumian e-cash framework,
designed to let communities pool custody and issue private bearer tokens. With
OpenSats' support, contributors made progress delivering software and tooling.

The Lightning Gateway project, spearheaded by
[m1sterc001guy](/blog/m1sterc001guy-receives-lts-grant), introduced
[LNv2](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/7240), a new payment system
that fixes malleability and simplifies invoices. Operators also gained a
self-contained [LDK mode](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/5540) that
eliminates the need for an external Lightning node, along with improved fee
handling, authenticated endpoints, and simple [12-word
recovery](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/5908) for both ecash and
on-chain funds.

Networking and deployment were improved by Harbor and core contributors, led by
[oleonardolima](https://github.com/oleonardolima). `Tor`
[support](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/5443) was added for private
connectivity, while `Iroh` [peer-to-peer
networking](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/7042) removed the need for
domain names or port forwarding. Packaging advances delivered [`Docker
Compose`](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/7042) files and a
[`Start9`](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/7117) service, making
federations easier to launch and manage.

Wallet safety and upgrades were the focus of core releases coordinated by
[Bradley Stachurski](https://github.com/bradleystachurski). A [double-spend
vulnerability](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/6065) was fixed, while
[database migrations](https://github.com/fedimint/fedimint/pull/6359) and
recovery tools were introduced. Real-world federations tested and hardened these
changes.

Experiments such as [`ROASTr`](https://github.com/m1sterc001guy/roastr) using
[nostr-signing](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/87.md),
conducted by m1sterc001guy, and [Ethan Tuttle](https://github.com/EthnTuttle),
demonstrated how federations could collectively sign and broadcast authenticated
messages. Testing utilities like
[`Devimint`](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/awesome-bitcoin-developer-tools-devimint/94)
and packaging for [`StartOS`](https://github.com/EthnTuttle/fedimintd-startos)
simplified onboarding providing operators with plug-and-play options for
deployment.

Together, with support from OpenSats, these efforts delivered real progress on
gateways, wallets, networking, and new modules to the broader ecash landscape.

### OpenCash

The [OpenCash Association](https://opencash.dev/) is a nonprofit dedicated to
advancing research and development of open-source ecash systems built on
Bitcoin. Using [support](/blog/let-a-thousand-flowers-bloom#opencash) from
OpenSats, its mission is to fund contributors, coordinate community efforts, and
create the conditions for Cashu to move from prototypes into tools with
real-world applications.

In early 2025, OpenCash launched a bounty for a [BTCPay Server
plugin](https://opencash.dev/projects) that would allow merchants already using
BTCPay to accept Cashu payments. Community developers delivered an early beta
plugin, [BTCNutServer](https://github.com/d4rp4t/BTCNutServer), aligned with
that scope. The plugin allows merchants to either accept and hold ecash directly
or automatically convert tokens into Lightning invoices. Mint whitelists give
operators the ability to specify which issuers they trust.

OpenCash also supported adoption by sponsoring design work. It backed a Cashu
track at the [2025 Bitcoin
Designathon](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/news/designathon-2025-invites-global-creatives-to-help-shape-the-future-of-bitcoin),
which brought UX specialists into the ecosystem. The work addressed wallet
setup, backup and recovery, handling multiple mints, and NFC-based payments,
producing design patterns that wallet teams could adopt directly.

Coordination across the developer community remained a priority. OpenCash
organized recurring public developer calls, publishing minutes and agendas.
These calls facilitated the adoption of standards such as WebSocket (NUT-17)
updates and Payment Requests (NUT-18), ensuring implementations remained
aligned.

To create a clear entry point for newcomers, OpenCash maintained opencash.dev as
the hub for grants, bounties, and updates. It also contributed to resources such
as [cashu.space](https://cashu.space/) and
[docs.cashu.space](https://docs.cashu.space/resources/learn), shortening the
path for both developers and users who want to get involved.

With long-term support from OpenSats, OpenCash advanced Cashu at several levels:
it funded the first merchant bridge through BTCPay, sponsored design work,
coordinated protocol development through public calls, and maintained a stable
entry point for newcomers. These steps strengthened the foundation for Cashu as
a privacy-preserving part of the Bitcoin ecosystem.

---

Ecash offers a path toward practical, privacy-preserving payments layered on
Bitcoin. It combines the speed and liquidity of Lightning with strong privacy
guarantees, bearer-style tokens, and the ability to transfer value offline or
asynchronously.

The advancements outlined above show a clear trend: as protocol standards
mature, wallets are becoming more interoperable, mints more resilient, and
tooling more user-friendly. These infrastructure developments allow merchants to
begin relying on ecash, while user-facing improvements are making wallets
faster, safer, and easier to use.

Much work remains, but the direction is clear: ecash is evolving into a durable
infrastructure that expands the payment capabilities of bitcoin as an asset.
OpenSats will continue to support the contributors and maintainers who are
driving this progress.

To support projects like these and others, please consider making a recurring
donation to the General Fund.

<center>
    <DonateRecurringButton/>
</center>

If you are a developer advancing free and open-source software that helps
Bitcoin flourish, we encourage you to [apply for
funding](https://opensats.org/apply).
