---
title: "Advancements in Lightning Infrastructure"
date: '2025-04-17'
tags: ['OpenSats', 'bitcoin', 'impact', 'lightning']
authors: ['default', 'arvin', 'julian']
images: ['/static/images/blog/74-advancements-in-lightning-infrastructure.jpg']
draft: false
summary: "An impact report from the front-lines of Lightning development."
---

Unlocking Bitcoin's full potential as a global, peer-to-peer currency means
building beyond the base layer. The Lightning Network is leading that
charge—and thanks to dedicated open-source contributors, it's becoming faster,
more secure, and easier to use every day. While the base layer ensures
decentralization and security, higher layers with different trade-off
characteristics are required to facilitate high-velocity micro-transactions,
streaming payments, and everyday commerce. That’s where Lightning comes in.

OpenSats grantees are at the forefront of building this foundational
infrastructure to enhance the Lightning Network's liquidity, interoperability,
testing, and security. These advancements are critical to ensuring Bitcoin can
function as a fast, reliable, and scalable payment system. We're highlighting
the following projects supported by our General Fund, with funding rounds
announced in [December 2023](/blog/bitcoin-grants-december-2023), [February
2024](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024), and [October
2024](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants) respectively:

- [Splicing](#splicing)
- [Validating Lightning Signer](#validating-lightning-signer-vls)
- [BLAST](#blast)
- [Lampo](#lampo)
- [Lnprototest](#lnprototest)

Let's explore the progress these projects made and the impact they're having on
the Lightning Network.

---

### Splicing

[Splicing](https://lightningsplice.com/splicing_explained.html) has long been
recognized as a crucial upgrade for the Lightning Network, allowing users to
dynamically adjust channel capacity without downtime. By removing the need to
close and reopen channels, Splicing not only reduces friction and costs but also
streamlines liquidity management.

Dusty Daemon, a Splicing pioneer and an OpenSats [Long-Term Support
recipient](/blog/dusty-daemon-receives-lts-grant), highlights Splicing's impact
on the Lightning Network:

>For the typical user, this means a near doubling of the capacity to move
>liquidity through the network. The increased liquidity flows improve all
>aspects of Lightning including payment speed, payment fees, and payment
>reliability.

Since receiving his grant, Dusty has advanced Splicing
[interoperability](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8031)
across multiple implementations, successfully testing it between Core Lightning
(CLN) and Eclair. By resolving protocol-level inconsistencies, his work marks a
major step toward universal Splicing adoption across the Lightning ecosystem.

Beyond direct interoperability, Dusty has introduced [Splice
Script](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/6980), a structured
scripting language that allows users to automate and optimize liquidity
management tasks—such as batching on-chain movements or scheduling
transactions based on fee conditions. The integration of its parser, compiler,
and validator into CLN has transformed Splice Script into a practical tool for
both node operators and application developers. Additionally, the Splice Solver
component helps streamline transaction construction, reducing errors, and making
complex Splicing operations more accessible.

The impact of these enhancements goes beyond just payment channels. By making
on-chain transaction logic more efficient, Splicing and Splice Script pave the
way for improved privacy in Bitcoin transactions, including
[Coinjoins](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/coinjoin/) and
[Payjoins](/blog/developing-advancements-in-onchain-privacy#async-payjoin). As
Dusty explains:

>The dream of higher-privacy decentralized on-chain coin sharing is brought
>ever so closer to reality with these improvements. These privacy projects have
>always been separate from Lightning but Splicing makes it possible to merge them
>together, creating a larger base from which to derive anonymity.

As regulatory pressures mount, building resilient, decentralized infrastructure
is more important than ever. These enhancements reinforce self-custody and
censorship resistance to ensure Bitcoin remains a tool for financial freedom.

In addition to supporting Dusty's work on Splicing, OpenSats has also funded an
initiative to integrate [Splicing into
LDK](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024#splicing-in-ldk). Over the past several
months, efforts to integrate Splicing into LDK have yielded meaningful strides
that led to a key breakthrough: the integration of [Interactive Transaction
Construction](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/2419). This
feature closely ties in with [Dual
Funding](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/issues/1621#issue-1308076236),
a mechanism that allows two participants to collaboratively open channels.
Because Splicing and Dual Funding share underlying transaction logic, progress
on one directly benefits the other.

As part of the ongoing effort to integrate Splicing into LDK, project developer
[Optout](https://github.com/optout21) has been conducting end-to-end testing in
`ldk-sample`, and `ldk-node-sample`, assessing stability and
readiness for integration. Although several foundational pull requests have been
merged, further work is needed to finalize integration into LDK and
ensure interoperability before Splicing is fully production-ready within LDK. Once complete, it
will bring a substantial improvement to how wallets and applications manage
Lightning liquidity, reducing on-chain costs and making user experiences more
efficient.

With Splicing integration in LDK progressing steadily, Optout's work and Dusty
Daemon's expanded tooling are converging to shape the future of Lightning
liquidity management. LDK's next milestones include finalizing message handling
and broader interoperability tests, while Dusty is pushing forward with
Transaction Intention Language (TIL)—a feature that further automates
collaborative transactions and channel rebalancing.

With Splicing adoption continuing to grow and Splice Script steadily maturing,
these projects are continually making the Lightning Network more efficient,
private, and accessible for all users.

### Validating Lightning Signer (VLS)

Securing private keys is one of the most critical issues in Lightning node
operations. Traditionally, Lightning Network implementations store private keys
directly on the node for transaction signing, exposing them to potential
compromise in the event of a security breach. [Validating Lightning
Signer](https://vls.tech/) (VLS) addresses this vulnerability by shifting key
storage and transaction validation to an external signer, ensuring that even if
a Lightning node is compromised, an attacker cannot access or misuse private
keys to steal funds. This separation significantly improves security without
diminishing the flexibility or performance required for effective Lightning
Network operations and management.

Since receiving OpenSats
[funding](/blog/bitcoin-grants-december-2023#validating-lightning-signer), VLS
has [made important
advancements](https://gitlab.com/lightning-signer/validating-lightning-signer/-/releases)
for both individual users and enterprise deployments. The
[release](https://gitlab.com/lightning-signer/validating-lightning-signer/-/releases)
of Beta 3 introduced tag-team signing functionality, allowing multiple signers 
to authorize transactions. The update also optimized performance, refined monitoring 
capabilities, and introduced a Dockerized deployment model, streamlining integration 
for developers and businesses seeking dependable Lightning security.

VLS has also expanded its footprint within the broader Lightning ecosystem
through various integrations. Notably, the project created
[lnrod](https://gitlab.com/lightning-signer/lnrod), a reference implementation
that facilitates VLS compatibility with LDK-based nodes, broadening its
usability for developers building on the Lightning Development Kit. Another 
major step forward was VLS's integration with 
[Greenlight](https://blockstream.com/lightning/greenlight/), a hosted Lightning 
node service run by Blockstream, which powers secure transaction signing for 
[Breez](https://breez.technology/), [Relai](https://relai.app/), and several 
other Lightning businesses. By providing enterprise-grade security for Greenlight's 
implementation, VLS has helped strengthen the security model of remote node 
hosting, an area of growing interest for enterprises and custodial service providers. 
As Christian Decker, Core Engineer at Blockstream put it:

>VLS allowed Greenlight to be developed at breakneck speed, without the risk.
>It is the fundamental building block, and central to the non-custodial nature
>of Greenlight.

Looking ahead, VLS aims for full mainnet readiness within a year, with plans 
to add support for new Lightning features like splicing and dual funding. 
The team is also focusing on helping enterprises to confidently manage millions 
in channel funds. Additionally, planned developments include improved support 
for routing and security features such as VLS running on secure enclaves. 
In the future, the project aims to introduce multi-sig capabilities for Lightning 
transactions, further strengthening security for high-value and institutional use cases.

Through these advancements, VLS pushes the boundaries of what's possible in
Lightning Network security, ensuring that Bitcoin's most widely used and
developed Layer2 scaling solution remains secure.

### BLAST

Lightning Network interoperability has been an ongoing concern, with each
implementation—[CLN](https://lightning.network/),
[LND](https://lightning.engineering/), and
[LDK](https://lightningdevkit.org/)—introducing variations in channel
policies, default settings, and routing strategies. This has led to
inconsistencies, creating friction for users and developers alike, ultimately
making seamless payments across the network more difficult than they should be.
Addressing this requires more than just improvements to individual
implementations; it demands independent testing tools capable of evaluating
interoperability across the entire Lightning protocol.
[BLAST](https://github.com/bjohnson5/blast) (Big Lightning Automated Simulation
Tool) is designed to provide a stable modeling and simulation framework for the
Lightning Network, giving researchers, developers, and node operators a
large-scale testing environment that more accurately reflects real-world network
conditions.

With OpenSats [support](/blog/bitcoin-grants-feb-2024#blast), BLAST has achieved
the ability to support all three major Lightning node implementations—CLN,
LND, and LDK—making it one of the only interoperability-focused testing tools
to do so. Unlike traditional test environments that require running multiple
separate node processes, BLAST introduces a new approach where all nodes operate
within a single process. This reduces computational overhead and enables
efficient, large-scale simulations without the usual resource constraints. LND
nodes, for example, are now run as
[goroutines](https://go.dev/tour/concurrency/1) within a single process,
allowing for a lightweight yet comprehensive testing setup. By eliminating
unnecessary complexity, BLAST improves protocol testing, helping developers
identify weaknesses, optimize routing strategies, and refine implementation
behaviors with greater accuracy.

This advancement also enables more rigorous testing of interoperability at
scale. Using BLAST, developers can now simulate real-world Lightning Network
environments to analyze how different implementations interact under various
conditions. Routing node operators can leverage these simulations to optimize
liquidity allocation, fee structures, and channel management strategies. Project
lead Blake Johnson emphasizes the importance of interoperability testing:

>Interoperability between different Lightning Node implementations continues to
>be a major pain point of the Lightning technology. Different channel policies,
>default settings, and routing strategies create friction when attempting to
>make payments. This is why it is so important to have independent developers
>building testing tools and researching the health of the protocol as a whole.

Looking ahead, BLAST is preparing for the next development phase, focusing on
creating lightweight models for different LN implementations, followed by
automation features that support reproducible network states. Incremental
improvements will continue rolling out, ensuring that BLAST remains a meaningful
tool for interoperability research. As Lightning adoption grows, the need for
independent, large-scale testing frameworks will only become more critical, and
BLAST is helping to lay the groundwork for a more well-structured Lightning
Network.

### Lampo

As the Lightning Network evolves, the need for modular, open-source node
implementations has become increasingly clear. Existing implementations often
come with trade-offs that limit flexibility for developers seeking highly
customizable solutions. Addressing this gap, [Lampo](https://lampo.devcrew.cc/)
provides a modular, community-driven alternative, built on the Lightning
Development Kit (LDK).

With [support](/blog/8th-wave-of-bitcoin-grants#lampo) from OpenSats, the
project has achieved a significant milestone by contributing to the integration
of LDK with `lnprototest`, a test suite designed to rigorously validate
Lightning protocol behavior. This work enhances LDK's reliability, ensures
adherence to Lightning standards, and strengthens its overall robustness, giving
developers greater confidence when testing their implementations. A key part of
this effort was the launch of the
[`ldk-lnprototest`](https://pypi.org/project/ldk-lnprototest/) package on PyPI.
This package provides a runner that facilitates the integration of LDK with
`lnprototest`, enabling automated and standardized testing. By reducing the
risks of protocol inconsistencies and implementation errors—challenges that can
significantly impact Lightning's reliability—this tool ensures a more robust and
predictable development process for LDK-based implementations like Lampo.

>Building reliable Lightning infrastructure requires both rigorous testing and
>continuous improvements. The LDK-Lnprototest integration and enhancements to
>Lampo aim to make the network more robust and developer-friendly. Excited to
>push this forward!
>
><cite>—Prakhar Saxena, Lampo Project Lead</cite>

In addition to improving the Lightning testing environment, Lampo has also
[introduced
improvements](https://github.com/vincenzopalazzo/lampo.rs/pull/295/commits) to
wallet security and usability. Previously, users had to manually enter their
[BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) seed words in the
command line every time they restored a wallet, posing privacy risks and
reducing usability. Now, Lampo securely stores and manages wallet restoration
data in a binary file (`wallet.dat`), eliminating the need for repeated manual
entry and improving the user experience without compromising security.

Together, these improvements make Lampo both a reliable development tool and a
more secure node implementation.

Looking ahead, Lampo plans to continue its evolution by implementing a
proof-of-concept for Validating Lightning Signer (VLS), a move that will further
improve security by enabling external validation of Lightning signatures. Future
updates will also introduce a PoC of a plugin system, and expand documentation to encourage broader
adoption. By fostering a truly open-source, modular approach to running a
Lightning node, Lampo is carving out a space for greater experimentation and
innovation in the Lightning ecosystem.

### Lnprototest

The Lightning Network's success depends, in part, on seamless interoperability
between different implementations such as CLN, LND, and LDK. However, ensuring
that protocol changes don't break compatibility across implementations is a
constant challenge. Without a standardized and rigorous testing framework, even
small discrepancies in how nodes interact can lead to fragmentation, payment
failures, and reliability issues.

To solve this, [lnprototest](https://pypi.org/project/lnprototest/) provides a
Python-based testing library that helps developers validate protocol adherence
across different implementations, ensuring cross-compatibility and preventing
regressions before they impact real-world users.

Initially launched in 2019 as a monolithic application, lnprototest has since
undergone a significant transformation into a modular library, making it more
accessible and adaptable for a wider range of Lightning developers. With its
availability on PyPI, the project now allows for custom testing setups tailored
to specific implementations, reinforcing its role as a vital infrastructure
component for the Lightning Network.

With OpenSats
[support](/blog/bitcoin-grants-july-2024#lightning-network-protocol-test-framework),
one important advancement made has been the introduction of out-of-tree testing,
which allows tests to reside within an implementation's codebase rather than
being confined to the lnprototest repository. This not only reduces clutter but
also improves scalability, enabling projects to maintain their test suites while
still leveraging the standardized framework. Additionally, the development of
custom runners—such as LampoRunner—demonstrates how implementations can
tailor the testing process to their specific needs, further improving
flexibility and usability. These refinements make lnprototest a more powerful
tool for ensuring protocol compliance and catching issues before they impact
users.

By providing a stable and modular testing environment, lnprototest plays a
crucial role in safeguarding the reliability of the Lightning Network. Without a
rigorous testing framework, protocol changes risk breaking interoperability
between implementations, leading to fragmentation.
This library mitigates that risk by offering developers a consistent way to
validate protocol adherence, helping prevent subtle bugs that could undermine
network performance. As the project lead describes it, "lnprototest allows
another kind of testing that I define as vertical testing of the Lightning
Network implementation," underscoring the project's focus on deep, structured
validation at the protocol level.

Looking ahead, the project is focused on expanding its capabilities to support
an even broader range of test scenarios and implementations. Collaboration with
key contributors will be essential in refining the framework and ensuring its
adoption across all major Lightning Network implementations. With continuous
improvements, lnprototest aims to strengthen the protocol's foundation,
reinforcing interoperability and resilience as the Lightning Network continues
to scale.

---

The projects highlighted above represent just a small sample of the 250+ [grants
OpenSats has given](/transparency)—several of which have made significant
advancements in Lightning infrastructure. These contributions have enabled
developers to create new wallet and node implementations that leverage the
latest Lightning features—ultimately improving the user experience for
Lightning payments.

Our grantees have already proven the power of interoperability by integrating
their technologies into each other's projects—demonstrating how these
innovations work as modular building blocks of the Lightning Network.

The future of Lightning as a scalable, permissionless payment system depends on
continued open-source innovation and collaboration. OpenSats remains committed
to funding the builders pushing Bitcoin's second-layer technology forward,
ensuring a more decentralized, scalable, and secure Lightning ecosystem.

If you believe in making Bitcoin a truly global, secure, and
censorship-resistant financial system—fueled by second-layer solutions like
the Lightning Network—we invite you to support OpenSats. Every donation—no
matter the size—directly fuels open-source development, empowering people
worldwide to transact freely and securely. Together, we can build a future where
Bitcoin remains open, accessible, and unstoppable.

<center>
    <DonateToGeneralFundButton/>
</center>

If you are a developer working on open-source software that makes Lightning even
better than it is today, don't hesitate to [apply for funding](/apply).
