---
title: "Let a Thousand Flowers Bloom"
date: '2025-03-15'
tags: ['OpenSats', 'grants', 'bitcoin', 'nostr', 'wave']
draft: false
authors: ['default', 'dergigi']
images: ['/static/images/blog/72-let-a-thousand-flowers-bloom.jpg']
summary: "OpenSats fosters a global network of nonprofits supporting open-source Bitcoin and nostr development."
---

From the beginning, the [OpenSats mission](/mission) has been to provide a
sustainable ecosystem of funding for developing free and open-source software,
especially software that makes bitcoin flourish.

To strengthen that ecosystem, we are funding multiple organizations with the
intention of helping make the overall funding landscape even more robust than it
is today. We believe that funding open-source infrastructure is of the utmost
importance for a free and prosperous society.

While our aim is to drive progress across the ecosystem, we recognize that
sustainable growth requires a network of specialized organizations and
foundations necessary to ensure horizontal scaling and a robust ecosystem.
Sustainable scaling requires local, targeted, and specialized support. No single
organization can or should fund everything.

One of our goals for this epoch is to encourage the creation of OpenSats-like
organizations, whether to focus on specific domains, enable tax-deductible
donations in new jurisdictions, or provide regional and local support. As a
first step towards that goal we are delighted to announce support for multiple
organizations that embody this vision, namely:

- [2140](#2140)
- [OpenCash](#opencash)
- [Bitshala](#bitshala)
- [Summer of Bitcoin](#summer-of-bitcoin)
- [Bitcoin Dev Launchpad](#bitcoin-dev-launchpad)
- [Foundation Formation Kit](#foundation-formation-kit)

Let's take a closer look at each of these organizations to understand how they
align with our mission and how they help us achieve said goal.

---

### 2140

[2140](https://2140.dev/) is a European non-profit organization committed to the
long-term security, resilience, and maintainability of the Bitcoin network.
Based in Amsterdam, it provides full-time employment for experienced
contributors and structured fellowship programs for newcomers, ensuring
sustainable growth in open-source Bitcoin development. 2140 enables developers
to focus on multi-year initiatives that strengthen the ecosystem. The Amsterdam
office fosters in-person collaboration, creating a supportive environment for
contributors to build lasting careers in Bitcoin.

Looking forward, 2140 aims to expand its impact by attracting new funding
sources, including European business partnerships and public goods grants. The
organization seeks to establish a replicable model for supporting open-source
Bitcoin development, ensuring that the technical knowledge base continues to
grow. Through mentorship, structured career paths, and long-term project
support, 2140 is working to make full-time Bitcoin development both viable and
sustainable.

### OpenCash

[OpenCash](https://opencash.dev/) is a Swiss non-profit organization dedicated
to the research and development of free and open-source electronic cash systems
that support censorship-resistant financial services built on Bitcoin. At the
core of its mission is the Cashu protocol, a Chaumian ecash system that enables
private and secure transactions backed by sats. Cashu enables projects to build
privacy-centric financial tools providing secure alternatives to
surveillance-based financial systems.

To further its goals, OpenCash focuses on four key areas: refining the
[Cashu](https://cashu.space/) protocol to enhance privacy and expand its
capabilities, developing decentralized infrastructure that enables individuals
and communities to run their own mints, supporting user-friendly applications
that can function in low connectivity environments, and fostering a growing
developer community through grants, research, and educational initiatives. These
efforts aim to establish ecash as a practical and scalable tool for Bitcoin
users seeking greater privacy and security in their financial transactions.

### Bitshala

[Bitshala](http://bitshala.org) is a grassroots education initiative focused on
training the next generation of open-source Bitcoin and Lightning developers in
India. The initiative provides structured guidance, study cohorts, and
community-driven mentorship to help developers navigate Bitcoin's
multidisciplinary landscape. Since its launch in January 2023, Bitshala has
built a thriving community, hosting study clubs, reading groups, and review
sessions covering Bitcoin Core and Lightning development. All educational
materials are open-source and freely accessible, allowing developers worldwide
to replicate and adapt Bitshala's model.

Looking ahead, Bitshala plans to scale its operations by increasing the
frequency of study cohorts, expanding weekly study clubs, and offering more
fellowship opportunities to developers, designers, and educators in the Bitcoin
space. With its growing community and a dedicated co-working space in Bangalore,
Bitshala aims to strengthen its network of Bitcoin contributors while refining
its open-source education model for broader adoption.

### Summer of Bitcoin

[Summer of Bitcoin](http://summerofbitcoin.org) is a global internship program
that introduces university students to open-source Bitcoin development and
design. Since 2021, the program has provided students with mentorship, hands-on
experience, and earning stipends paid in bitcoin, helping them contribute to
real-world projects across the Bitcoin ecosystem. Over 40,000 students from 74
countries have applied, with 218 interns contributing to over 60 open-source
Bitcoin projects under the guidance of experienced mentors. Many alumni have
gone on to work as engineers, designers, and educators at Bitcoin organizations
such as Alby, Bitshala, Block, and Blockstream.

To further its impact, Summer of Bitcoin aims to expand its reach by engaging
additional mentors, increasing project opportunities, and strengthening
collaboration with Bitcoin open-source organizations. The program will continue
to refine its structured learning process by offering a technical bootcamp,
guided project contributions, and direct mentorship from experienced developers.
Through stronger industry ties, Summer of Bitcoin can equip a greater number of
students with the skills needed to transition into full-time roles in the
Bitcoin ecosystem.

### Bitcoin Dev Launchpad

[Bitcoin Dev Launchpad](http://vinteum.org/bdl) is a 40-week program by Vinteum
that trains developers in Bitcoin open-source development using a structured
three-phase approach. It starts with a 4-week Socratic seminar on Mastering
Bitcoin featuring coding challenges and interviews, followed by a 12-week phase
focused on technical training, open-source collaboration, and PR reviews. The
final 6-month fellowship offers mentorship and financial support to top
performers transitioning into full-time contributors. The curriculum primarily
targets Bitcoin Core and the Lightning Network, while also introducing BDK and
Fedimint, and includes hands-on hackathons at Casa21, Vinteum's hacker house in
São Paulo, Brazil.

As the program evolves, Bitcoin Dev Launchpad continues to refine its curriculum
and arranges participation at developer events such as the recent bitcoin++ in
Florianópolis, Brazil held earlier this year. The program aims to lower barriers
for new contributors and strengthen Bitcoin's open-source ecosystem, cultivating
a new generation of developers who can help drive critical Bitcoin
infrastructure projects forward.

### Foundation Formation Kit

The [Foundation Formation Kit](http://docs.foundationformationkit.org) (FFK) is
a project by the Open Source Justice Foundation (OSJF) that helps open-source
communities establish tax-exempt foundations. Securing IRS tax-exempt status is
complex, time-consuming, and costly, often requiring legal counsel.
Historically, this structure has been accessible mainly to large, well-funded
projects. FFK simplifies the process with structured templates, including
corporate bylaws and IRS 1023 application forms, with clear step-by-step
instructions. By lowering barriers to foundation formation, it enables
open-source projects to secure funding and distribute funds without additional
legal costs or tax liabilities. Making tax-exempt foundations more accessible
strengthens the open-source ecosystem's financial and legal infrastructure,
encouraging sustainable development and broad participation.

FFK is expanding its efforts with an interactive Foundation Formation Wizard, a
web-based tool that auto-generates legal documents. A Filing Fee Fund will help
cover incorporation and IRS filing costs. Educational initiatives, including
seminars, will encourage adoption. Future milestones include extending legal
templates to activist and human rights groups, supporting jurisdictions beyond
the United States, and integrating with fundraising platforms like Geyser and
OSJF's nostr-native initiative, Fundsolvr.

---

As we move forward, we are excited about the potential of collaborating with
others to empower more organizations and initiatives that align with our
mission. By providing the necessary resources, guidance, and support, we aim to
facilitate the launch of projects that contribute to the sustainability and
growth of open-source software. Together, we can create a vibrant ecosystem
where innovative ideas can thrive and make a lasting impact on freedom tech.

If you are considering launching an organization that shares our vision for a
decentralized and empowered future, we encourage you to [reach out to
us](/contact). We are eager to connect with like-minded individuals and groups
who are passionate about fostering collaboration and driving progress. Your
initiative could be the next step in building a robust network of support that
ensures the continued flourishing of free and open-source projects. Let's work
together to make a difference!
