---
title: "Sixth Wave of Nostr Grants"
date: '2024-08-08'
tags: ['OpenSats', 'grants', 'nostr', 'wave']
draft: false
authors: ['arvin', 'dergigi']
images: ['/static/images/blog/TODO']
summary: "OpenSats is funding seven more open-source projects in the nostr ecosystem."
---

Unlocking a new era of decentralized innovation, the nostr protocol continues to
flourish as a transformative, censorship-resistant alternative for building
resilient social media and applications. With a growing ecosystem of innovative
projects, developers are leveraging nostr's unique architecture to create
diverse solutions that emphasize user control, privacy, and open collaboration.

Nostr has evolved beyond its initial perception as a 'Twitter clone.' It is now
a foundational platform for self-sovereign identity, decentralized social
graphs, web-of-trust systems, and secure communication frameworks. The potential
applications of nostr are vast and continually expanding, reflecting its role as
a cornerstone of permissionless social media and interaction.

In this sixth wave of grants, we are excited to highlight seven projects that
are at the forefront of this innovation. These projects embody the spirit of
open-source development and are paving the way for a decentralized future. We
are proud to support their work and look forward to the groundbreaking
advancements that they will bring to the nostr ecosystem. These projects are:

- [Osty](#osty)
- [Seer](#seer)
- [Alphaama](#alphaama)
- [Corny Chat](#corny-chat)
- [Nostroots](#nostroots)
- [Dart NDK and Yana](#dart-ndk-and-yana)
- [Jester UI and Nostr Spring Boot
  Starter](#jester-ui-and-nostr-spring-boot-starter)

Our support for nostr is made possible by generous donors like you. If you would
like to help us continue supporting the nostr ecosystem, consider making a
donation to [The Nostr Fund](/funds/nostr):

<center>
    <DonateToNostrFundButton/>
</center>

Let's take a closer look at these innovative projects that are pushing the
boundaries of what's possible within the nostr ecosystem.

---

### Osty

[Osty](https://osty.dev/), led by [Sepehr](https://github.com/sepehr-safari), is
a free and open-source framework designed to streamline the development of web
applications on the nostr protocol. It offers a comprehensive toolkit akin to
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) but tailored for nostr, including UI components,
widgets, NDK, and essential features like caching, routing, and state
management. Osty aims to enhance both the development and team collaboration
experience, providing templates for popular frameworks such as React, Vue, and
Svelte. The project focuses on facilitating rapid app development from concept
to production, with an emphasis on scalability, design patterns, safety, and
performance. Future plans include evolving Osty into a no-code platform,
enabling users with no coding skills to create customized nostr apps easily,
potentially incorporating AI for app creation based on prompts.

Repository: [ostyjs/create-osty](https://github.com/ostyjs/create-osty/)

License: MIT

### Seer

[Seer](https://github.com/Galaxoid-Labs/Seer#), by [Galaxoid
Labs](https://github.com/Galaxoid-Labs), is an open-source application designed
for group communication and management within nostr's protocol using
[NIP-29](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/29.md). Built with
Swift, Seer is optimized for macOS, iOS, iPadOS, and potentially visionOS,
providing a native user experience similar to Apple Mail. The project aims to
fill the gap in robust, platform-native nostr applications, offering seamless
group communication and easy-to-deploy relay scripts for NIP-29 based groups.
The project's goals include completing the macOS version, developing iOS and
iPadOS versions, and creating one-click deploy scripts for relays. Future plans
involve expanding to other platforms like Windows, Linux, and Android.

Repository: [Galaxoid-Labs/Seer](https://github.com/Galaxoid-Labs/Seer)

License: MIT

### Alphaama

[Alphaama](https://alphaama.com/), led by [eskema](https://tiago.balas.pt/), is
an open-source nostr client that combines a command-line interface with a
graphical user interface, offering a highly customizable and flexible platform.
Designed as a research project into UI/UX possibilities, alphaama encourages
users to explore and modify its codebase, promoting privacy and user empowerment
by giving full control over how users interact with nostr. The project aims to
expose the inner workings of the protocol, providing an educational tool for
newcomers and a creative playground for developers. Ongoing development includes
new features and enhancements, with a focus on challenging conventional software
design paradigms and inspiring unique approaches to decentralized network
applications.

Repository: [eskema/alphaama](https://github.com/eskema/alphaama)

License: AGPL-3.0

### Corny Chat

[Corny Chat](https://cornychat.com/), led by [Vicarious
Drama](https://github.com/vicariousdrama), is an open-source audio spaces
platform akin to Twitter Spaces or Clubhouse, forked from [Jam
Systems](https://github.com/jam-systems/jam) with enhanced nostr integrations.
The project aims to provide a decentralized, privacy-respecting alternative for
audio discussions, supporting features like
[NIP-07](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/07.md) logins,
lightning payments, and customizable user profiles. Future enhancements include
live chat, event scheduling, and room management features, making Corny Chat a
vital tool for fostering community engagement and anonymous participation within
the nostr ecosystem. The project is part of a broader effort to integrate FOSS
applications with nostr, promoting greater adoption and flexibility. Key
milestones include adding support for live activities and audio streams, as well
as expanding functionality with custom emojis and room management tools.

Repository:
[vicariousdrama/cornychat](https://github.com/vicariousdrama/cornychat)

License: AGPL-3.0

### Nostroots

[Nostroots](https://trustroots.github.io/nostroots/), led by [Callum
Macdonald](https://github.com/chmac) and [guaka](https://github.com/guaka), is
an initiative to migrate [Trustroots.org](http://trustroots.org)---a social
network with over 100,000 members---onto the nostr protocol. Trustroots offers a
platform similar to
[Couchsurfing](https://about.couchsurfing.com/about/how-it-works/) with an
alternative and more decentralized approach. The project aims to introduce its
users to public/private key technology and expand its use cases beyond
hospitality, including potential projects like a nostr based ride sharing app.
The transition to nostr seeks to ensure the platform's independence from
centralized servers by 2027, fostering privacy, freedom of movement, and
communication. The team's goal is to complete this migration to becoming
open-source without disrupting the user experience, ultimately making their
ongoing involvement unnecessary.

Repository: [Trustroots/nostroots](https://github.com/Trustroots/nostroots)

License: AGPL-3.0

### Dart NDK and Yana

[Dart NDK](https://pub.dev/packages/dart_ndk) and [Yana](https://yana.do/), led
by [Frnandu](https://github.com/frnandu/), are two key projects in the nostr
ecosystem.

Dart NDK (Nostr Development Kit) is a development kit written in Dart, designed
to enhance the decentralization of nostr by providing components for relay
connectivity, caching, and maximum performance through native code in C or Rust.
It supports the [gossip/outbox
model](https://github.com/frnandu/yana/blob/master/GOSSIP.md) for improved data
discovery without reliance on central coordination.

Yana (Yet Another Nostr Application), a nostr client built with Flutter,
leverages Dart NDK to offer a fast, multi-platform experience, particularly
optimized for older devices. It includes integrations with external apps for
secure event signing, ensuring users retain control over their private keys.

Both projects aim to provide flexible, customizable solutions for various user
profiles while maintaining a strong focus on privacy and user freedom. Upcoming
milestones include achieving preferred status among nostr libraries for Dart
NDK, and extensive feature implementations for Yana.

Repositories: [relaystr/dart_ndk](https://github.com/relaystr/dart_ndk) and
[frnandu/yana](https://github.com/frnandu/yana)

Licenses: MIT

### Jester UI and Nostr Spring Boot Starter

[Jester UI](https://jesterui.github.io/) and [Nostr Spring Boot
Starter](https://github.com/theborakompanioni/nostr-spring-boot-starter#), led
by [Thebora Kompanioni](https://github.com/theborakompanioni), are two distinct
projects aimed at expanding the nostr ecosystem.

Jester UI is a chess platform over nostr, akin to
[Lichess](https://lichess.org/), but integrates Bitcoin microtransactions,
allowing players to earn and "zap" sats during chess games. This project aspires
to engage the growing chess community, with plans for hosting tournaments and
potentially attracting broader audiences to nostr and Bitcoin.

Nostr Spring Boot Starter provides core modules for developing extensible relay
and client software tailored for businesses, focusing on Java and JVM-based
languages. It aims to serve as a foundational infrastructure similar to
[nginx](https://nginx.org/en/) for the web, but specifically for nostr, catering
to businesses and developers who may not have the resources to build such
infrastructure from the ground up.

Repository: [jesterui/jesteru](https://github.com/jesterui/jesterui) and
[nostr-spring-boot-starter](https://github.com/theborakompanioni/nostr-spring-boot-starter)

License: MIT, Apache-2.0

---

We are proud to support these projects and look forward to their continuous
contributions to the nostr ecosystem. If you're working on a nostr project that
is free and open-source, don't hesitate to [apply](/apply). Our support for
nostr projects and contributors is made possible through the generosity of our
donors. Help us empower developers working towards creating a decentralized
future by making a donation to [The Nostr Fund](/funds/nostr).

<center>
    <DonateToNostrFundButton/>
</center>
