---
title: "Highlights of #nostrdesign"
date: 2024-05-10
tags:
  - OpenSats
  - nostr
  - design
draft: false
authors:
  - karnage
  - dtonon
  - niel
images:
  - /static/images/blog/33-design-update.jpg
summary: A brief update on what the Nostr Designers have been up to.
---

The [pixel-obsessed nostriches](/nostr#nostr-design) have been busy, gently
whipping the protocol into a presentable shape. Here are the highlights *\*hehe\**
of some of the tools as a result:

## Highlighter

[highlighter.com](https://highlighter.com/) - the creator’s toolbox. Niel
Liesmons applied first principles thinking while maintaining some of the tried
and true UX patterns to create a visually stunning platform for creators.
Highlighter allows for content publishing and subscription management all in one
place. It’s one of the most ambitious projects on Nostr and everyone is excited
to see how it turns out.

![Highlighter](/static/images/blog/highlighter.png)

---

## Nostr Nests

[nostrnests.com](https://nostrnests.com/) is an effort led by Derek Ross,
developed by Kieran and crafted from the ground up by Karnage. Nests has already
attracted an active user base from the Thai community. People from all parts of
the world come to nests to converse and exchange ideas without the fear of being
censored or de-platformed. Nests is what Twitter spaces wished it was, but can
never be, and it looks squeaky clean! Coupled with wallet connect functionality,
nests allow anyone to exchange value and thank speakers for their time.

Nostr Nests was recently enhanced with wallet connect functionality and balance
previews in the action bar UI.

![Nests](/static/images/blog/nests.png)

---

## Mutiny

Inspired by a talk Niel gave at the first Sovereign Engineering Cohort, the
[Mutiny Wallet](https://www.mutinywallet.com/) team decided to start leveraging
the benefits of a Chat UI in their app and go full throttle on making it a true
People’s wallet. A bunch of UI suggestions have already received their warm
welcome in their latest update.

![Mutiny](/static/images/blog/mutiny.png)

---

## TopZaps

In an effort to make [#value4value][v4v] content publishing work, Niel Liesmons
came up with **Top Zaps**. It’s an intuitive way to show individual zappers in a
social feed (from high to low) and incentivize users to compete for the top
spot. Predictably, [Nostrudel](https://nostrudel.ninja/) was the first app to
implement this. Both Highlighter and [Primal](https://primal.net/) quickly
followed suit and chose to even give the message of the top zap special
attention. We’re curious how this will play out over time.

![TopZaps](/static/images/blog/topzaps.png)

---

## Zap.cooking

[zap.cooking](https://zap.cooking/) underwent a rebrand from nostr.cooking. The
platform now features a clean and intuitive design, making it easy for anyone to
share their favorite recipes. It’s far from its final form, the team is already
planning a v2 phase with some interesting developments to come. The team
collaborated with Karnage to achieve a stress-free UX, a departure from modern
recipe websites filled with SEO-optimized stories and advertisements.

![Zap.cooking](/static/images/blog/zapcooking.png)

---

## Coracle.social

[Coracle.social](https://coracle.social/) developed by Hodlbod, is taking on a
new form in the wake of the design conceived by Daniele. Characterized by warm
tones punctuated by the main color, an unusual orange in a purplish environment,
the interface offers generous spaces with prominent navigation, in which user
iteration is simple and pleasant, thus adapting to a wide range of user types,
especially those less technical.

![Coracle](/static/images/blog/coracle-New.png)

Coracle introduced WoT (Web Of Trust), one of the best ways to determine a
person's trustworthiness based on his or her social graph. Now that feature is
emphasized with a new design derived from the circular sign of its logo that
immediately shows the user's score at a glance. This helps reduce spam,
impostors, and objectionable content.

![WoT](/static/images/blog/coracle-WoT.png)

More new features are in the works involving custom feeds and search, stay
tuned!

---

## Njump

[njump.me](https://njump.me/), Nostr's static HTTP gateway, allows you to browse
profiles, notes and relays; it is now widely used by the community to preview a
resource, especially messaging or social systems, and then open it with your
preferred client. For this reason, Daniele decided to completely overhaul the
homepage and make it an introductory resource that can explain in a quick and
engaging way why Nostr is important.

![Njump](/static/images/blog/njump-update.png)

---

## Zap.stream

[Zap.stream](https://zap.stream/) is not the newest kid on the block but it is
continuously undergoing development and refining the UI/UX. Just recently
Karnage re-visited the entire onboarding flow, making it easier for newcomers to
join and get started. Streamers now also have access to a brand new dashboard
that makes it easy to see their earnings and manage the stream in real-time.
Gone are the days of minimal subscriber counts to start earning.

Zap.stream now features a new dashboard and a new onboarding flow.

![Zap.stream](/static/images/blog/zapstream.png)

---

## Satcom

Jingles reached out with the [#nostrdesign][nd] hashtag for some design
assistance on his [satcom.app](https://satcom.app/), a browser extension that
lets you comment on any page you happen to be visiting. The landing page of the
complete rebrand already went live and UI designs were provided to make the app
more intuitive and make it fit in with the browser's design language.

![Satcom](/static/images/blog/satcom.png)

---

## Mostr.pub

[Mostr.pub](https://mostr.pub/) - the fediverse-to-nostr bridge was also
refreshed with a somewhat minor but future-looking UI that can accommodate
further development.

![Mostr](/static/images/blog/mostr.png)

---

### Get design assistance for your nostr or bitcoin project

OpenSats is proud to support developers and designers who contribute to
open-source projects in the nostr and bitcoin space. This means your open-source
project or shipped product can take advantage of this initiative. To get
assistance, email design@opensats.org or tag [#nostrdesign][nd] in any of the
social clients with a few details about your project.

[v4v]: https://nostr.band/?q=%23value4value
[nd]: https://nostr.band/?q=%23nostrdesign
