---
title: "Additional Funding from #startsmall"
date: '2023-05-04'
tags: ['OpenSats', 'funding', 'donations', 'startsmall', 'bitcoin', 'nostr']
draft: false
summary: "OpenSats receives $10 million from #startsmall for bitcoin, nostr, and related FOSS development."
---

We are delighted to announce that OpenSats has received a generous donation of
$10 million from Jack Dorsey's philanthropic initiative, #startsmall, which will
be used to support the development of free and open-source software and projects
focusing on bitcoin, nostr, and related technologies.

OpenSats' mission is to help build a sustainable ecosystem and provide
consistent funding for free and open-source projects and protocols. We believe
that free software and open protocols are necessary for a free and prosperous
society. Without software that protects the individual user's rights and
freedoms, and without digital infrastructure that is open to all, modern society
risks slipping further into digital totalitarianism.

OpenSats will continue to be a 100% pass-through operation, meaning that all
donated funds will be fully allocated to projects vetted by the OpenSats board
of directors unless they are specifically provided for operational purposes.
#startsmall's donation includes funding for OpenSats' operational budget, which
will allow us to remain 100% pass-through, expand efforts, and streamline
operations as a 501(c)(3) public charity going forward.

Half of the donation amount—$5m USD—will be dedicated to advancing the new and
growing nostr ecosystem. We have set up a committee of nostr developers and
tinkerers, including fiatjaf and NVK, who will help us to evaluate projects and
protocol contributions. If you are working on nostr and looking for funding,
please apply here: [https://opensats.org/apply](/apply)

As part of expanding these efforts, NVK and Gigi are joining the OpenSats board
to help with our organizational and funding decisions. Gigi will be joining in a
full-time capacity to lead our ongoing operations and strategy.

The structure of OpenSats remains unchanged: we want to create a sustainable,
independent, and consistent ecosystem of funding for bitcoin, nostr, and other
open-source projects. Having multiple open-source contributors on our
board—tenured core devs among them—helps us to better understand what is needed
to put effective long-term support structures into place.

We are excited to work with contributors, industry, and the wider free and
open-source community to help ship the freedom tools that are so desperately
needed. We can't wait to see what you are going to build.

In the words of Cypherpunk founder Eric Hughes:  
"Let us proceed together apace. Onward."
